===== PAGE 18 =====

Preprint. Under review.
C
Extended Results
C.1
Quality vs. Confidence Correlation
Figure 6: The correlation between student confidence and generation quality for a prelim-
inary experiment where we train a Llama-3.1-8B Base model on generic webtext under
our MTP objective. We evaluate the quality of its completions to prefixes in a validation
set (loss under the teacher model, lower is better) and correlate this against the student’s
confidence in its own generations (avg. probability assigned to top token in all k positions).
The correlation between confidence and quality allows us to design a simple adaptive de-
coding strategy that limits the number of tokens sampled if the model is not sufficiently
confident at any point during the generation process.
C.2
Performance over the course of training.
In Figures 7 and 8 we present the evaluation performance and acceleration on the GSM8K
benchmark over the course of ∼100, 000 training iterations for our L3.1-8B-Magpie based
and Q3-4B-Inst-2507 based MTP models respectively to accompany the performance vs.
acceleration pareto plots in Figure 4. We show the same dynamics and performance vs.
acceleration pareto plots for both models but for the BBH evaluation task in Figures 9
to 11 We find that when evaluating the models under the Static scheme at various values
of k, performance is inversely proportional to the value of k. We also observe that both
performance and acceleration stabilize by the halfway point. Note that we report an initial
acceleration factor < k for Static schemes in some cases because when untrained, the model
often emits a stop token within the first k token window, truncating the sequence.
The ConfAdapt scheme is visualized on the same axes as the Static scheme by computing
the average k value that was chosen by the heuristic across all decoding steps over all the
generations in the evaluation. We present the results across a sweep of confidence thresholds
for each model and benchmark. We observe that the ConfAdapt schemes are pareto optimal,
achieving significant acceleration factors of > 3× without degrading accuracy very much.
At more aggressive settings using more permissive confidence thresholds, the acceleration
factors are as high as 5× but cause a more significant reduction in accuracy.
18
