===== PAGE 5 =====

Preprint. Under review.
“Hard” teacher distribution.
Finally, to further enhance the clarity of our supervision
signals, we also consider a version of Equation (3) where the readout function applied to the
teacher is also the argmax. This reduces PθT(y′|x1:ir) to a delta distribution with zero entropy.
By construction, computing the loss using a “hard” version of the student-forced teacher’s
distribution requires that the student’s entropy drop to zero to minimize it completely.
While we do not achieve such full convergence in our experiments, we do observe the
desired entropy reduction effect one would expect under this setting and adopt it for our
main training runs.
Choice of teacher model.
While Equation (3) imposes no particular constraints on the
exact model chosen as the teacher or the initialization of the student policy, we believe
a natural choice exists. In the special case where k = 1, during the first step of training,
the online MTP objective reduces to a standard NTP knowledge distillation approach; the
student need only predict a single token following a given prefix that is likely under the
teacher. For this reason, we posit that initializing the student and the teacher using the same
pretrained checkpoint, θ0
T = θ0
S, ensures that the loss function is well behaved in the early
stages of training. Under this initialization, at step 0 and k = 1, the student and teacher’s
predictions are exactly the same and Equation (3) is 0. Therefore, we will run all experiments
under θ0
T = θ0
S initialization, but with k ≥2 to allow the student to actually learn to perform
accelerated inference.
3.4
Inference
The training objective Equation (3) uses the deterministic argmax readout function to
materialize the student’s k-token rollout y′. However, at inference time, we must also choose
a method for sampling from the student. We note that in our simple MTP formulation,
PθS(y′|x1:i) does not explicitly parametrize the product distribution over Yk and instead
produces PθS(y′
j|x1:i),
j ∈[1, ..k]. Therefore, under the softmax readout, the k tokens would
actually be sampled individually. If the distribution has any entropy—meaning the student
is not perfectly certain about the individual tokens at each position—then the sampled
tokens may not be mutually compatible.
In principle, this issue is resolved simply by using the greedy argmax readout function at
test time. Because the model is trained using a deterministic argmax, a well fit MTP model
should yield argmax tokens at each position that are compatible with their argmax neighbors.
The only thing that matters for such a model is which token is assigned the largest logit
value rather than the entropy of the model’s entire output distribution. Therefore, we must
determine empirically whether or not argmax tokens produced by a student model trained
using Equation (3) are actually coherent in practice. Later, we will see that despite the fact
that it is not strictly necessary, high generation coherence (low perplexity) appears to be
closely correlated with high token confidence (low entropy) in our experiments, and we will
exploit this fact to create a simple adaptive sampler.
4
Implementation Details
In Section 3, we introduced our method in an abstract manner. Now, in Section 4.1 through
Section 4.3 we provide details about the actual implementation of our training and inference
scheme; complete details can be found in Appendix B including a formal procedure in
Algorithm 1. Figures 2 and 3 are rendered in support of components of our implementa-
tion that are most succinctly described using visuals such as attention patterns and input
tokenization and masking.
4.1
Tokenization and Masking
The training objective proposed in Equation (3) is computed over a specific position i in a
ground truth sequence X and the next k tokens that the student predicts to follow the prefix
x1:i. For any sequence X of length N, there are N −1 unique prefixes that can be materialized
5
