===== PAGE 9 =====

Preprint. Under review.
5.4
Ablations on the MTP Objective
In addition to the two main models that we showcase above, in the Appendix we include
results for ablations where we change the training dataset and where we modify the various
parameters of our MTP training objective. These ablations are presented in Section C.5
via Tables 4 and 5 but we can summarize those results as supportive of our choice of
hyperparameters and objective configuration for the main models. To highlight just a few
of the ablated settings, we observe the best overall performance when we utilize the hard
teacher distribution under the argmax readout as targets, when we randomize the k values
during training, when we use causal masking across the MTP regions, and when there is no
auxiliary loss term for NTP on prefix tokens.
5.5
Throughput vs. Latency
100
150
200
250
300
Latency−1 (tok/sec/sequence)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Throughput (tok/sec)
1
2
3
Static k
Methods
EAGLE-3
Concurrency
c=16
c=8
c=4
c=2
c=1
Figure 5: Throughput vs. latency tradeoff for
L3.1-8B-Magpie. Throughput is the total to-
kens per second emitted by the server, latency
is the tokens per second per request, and con-
currency is the number of parallel requests
made to the server. MTP decoding smoothly
trades latency for throughput and is com-
petitive with EAGLE-3 under our static k=3
strategy.
Finally, while the “Acceleration Factor” met-
ric reported above is an interpretable mea-
sure of speedup for a MTP approach, real
world gains may be different. Therefore, we
also analyze our approach using an integra-
tion with the inference framework SGLang
(Zheng et al., 2024); their engine supports
caching, batching, and model parallelism
features and enables a comparison to base-
lines like EAGLE-3 speculative decoding
(Li et al., 2025). Visualized as a pareto fron-
tier between throughput and latency, in Fig-
ure 5 we observe that our approach is com-
petitive with EAGLE-3 under our static k=3
strategy. However, in a companion chart,
Appendix Figure 12, we also see that the
ConfAdapt scheme’s overhead limits the
throughput advantage concurrency can pro-
vide in that setting. Note that the irregular-
ity for EAGLE-3 between c = 1 and c = 2
is likely caused by a change in engine be-
havior behind the scenes when switching
between single prompt and batching. See
Section C.3 for more in depth discussion
of these implementation details and results
across more strategies and a larger 32B pa-
rameter model.
5.6
Limitations
While we present a series of ablations to demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed objective,
early experiments and the outcomes of certain ablations suggest that there are many avenues
for improvement. For example, while we observe non-trivial lift when using randomized
k-values rather than static ones during training, there are other ways we could have per-
formed that ablation that might be more compelling. We also explored utilizing a non-static
curriculum over k values but those experiments were inconclusive. We considered directly
penalizing the entropy of the student model to collapse its distribution faster, but we ex-
pect that other approaches such as a second stage of traditional online RL with complete
multi-step roll outs might prove more effective than the penalty term approach. Finally, the
pair of datasets and limited training budgets we utilize yield surprisingly strong results but
we expect that scaling up the recipe (dataset, model size, training compute) could all help
produce more performant versions of our models. We will release our training code and
model checkpoints upon publication so that others can explore some of these directions in
future research; Appendix A discusses a few of these avenues in more detail.
9
