===== PAGE 30 =====

Preprint. Under review.
C.7
Offline Ground Truth Supervision (“GT Suprv.”).
As a baseline, we perform an ablation where all parameters of the MTP training objective
are the same as in the main experiments, but the source of supervision (target tokens) no
longer comes from the teacher model’s feedback. Specifically, instead of using the argmax
feedback from the teacher as the labels in Equation (3), we simply treat the k ground truth
tokens that appeared at each MTP region r in the prepared and masked input sequence as
the labels. As shown in Figure 14 and Table 4, this underperforms the online objective at the
higher values of k.
C.8
Bidirectional attention in MTP region (“BDA”).
Due to the fact that the student MTP LM does not receive ground truth tokens as input
within the masked region where it is performing prediction during training, our training
objective does not have the potential for the “anti-causal” leakage that would occur in
traditional offline NTP training if a bidirectional attention mask was used. Thus, we are
able to consider allowing all neighboring mask token representations within the same
MTP region to attend to each other. As shown in Table 4, we find that increasing the
representational and computational capacity of the MTP prediction pass does not yield a
meaningfully better final model under the same training conditions.
C.9
Prefix Loss NTP Supervision
Since we prepare input data during training using the M = N/(2k) strided convention,
as opposed to say M = N/k, certain regions in the sequence are “prefix” only (see “Pred”
regions marked false/0 in Figure 2). Due to the carefully blocked attention mask, the logits
at those positions in the MTP model’s output are produced by a computation that exactly
matches the standard NTP forward pass. As a result, we consider also supervising the
standard NTP objective on all of the prefix positions but as shown in Table 5, we find that it
underperforms the objective configuration used for the main experiments.
C.10
Unique Mask Tokens
One observed failure mode observed during our experiments is the repetition of tokens at
the end of a MTP region for larger values of k. To investigate whether this was potentially the
result of the model having insufficiently fine grained positional information to distinguish
tokens j from j −1 within the k token region, we also train a model with k unique <MASK>
tokens rather than just one. Specifically, during training, all ask regions were implemented
as <MTP1>,<MTP2>,<MTP3>,... and at test time, the generation loop extended the sequence
before each step with the same unique mask token sequence. As shown in Table 6, this
approach does not yield meaningfully better results than the main setting, even though
slightly more unique trainable parameters (rows of the embedding matrix) were available
to the model.
While not shown, we also qualitatively observe that the model trained with a single mask
token and the model trained with unique mask tokens, were actually rather agnostic to
which masking strategy was employed at test time. In other words, the main model trained
with a single mask token could accept the unique token format and operate relatively
normally, and vice versa. We conclude this is evidence of the token embeddings themselves
playing a rather minor role and the computational “slot” provided in the model to be the
primary functional role they play; it seems that the positional embeddings (RoPE features)
used at each mask position provides the main source of positional information to the model
during MTP.
C.11
Offline Teacher
To interrogate our claim about the superiority of the online objective posed in Equation (3),
we explore an alternate type of supervision sitting somewhere between truly offline ground
30
