===== PAGE 25 =====

Preprint. Under review.
To “address” this problem, we instead limit the pre-compilation logic to only the cross of
unique query lengths and batch sizes, and enforce a homogeneous execution pattern. During
batched execution, the server is limited to only scheduling batches of sequences whose
current query lengths are all the same; the count of which is dynamically determined by the
number of tokens accepted during the previous iteration for each sequence. This means that
at any time, if there is only one sequence with the query length q ready, then regardless of
the concurrency level—max simultaneous requests the server could theoretically try and
execute—it will only be able to process that sequence in isolation. Combined with the fact
that the ConfAdapt method predicts more tokens than it accepts (eg. 16 vs ∼3) which
saps GPU memory bandwidth and compute, the loss of the ability to make progress on c
sequences per setup in parallel is the most likely explanation for the poor throughput of
the ConfAdapt approach at high concurrency. Thus, while we conclude that the single user,
single sequence (c = 1) performance of the ConfAdapt scheme is genuinely competitive
with both static k = 3 and EAGLE-3, the prototype implementation we present would
benefit from more expert improvement and integration by SGLang’s maintainers or other
systems software researchers (hence the use of scare quotes around “address” at the start of
this paragraph).
Testing on a larger model.
The tensor parallelism features of SGLang also allow is to
serve a larger 32B model and observe whether this introduces any differences in scaling
across strategies. We train a version of Qwen 32B found on the Hugging Face hub hosted
as qywu/Qwen3-32B-Instruct using the same MetaMathQA data and hyperparameters as
our main models but with increased FSDP based model parallelism. Then we evaluate
it using the same set of decoding strategies but with 4 way tensor parallelism active in
SGLang. We observe almost the same scaling trends across strategies for this model with
minor differences likely caused by the increased per layer, per token costs of the larger
model.
25
