===== PAGE 13 =====

Preprint. Under review.
A
Directions for Future Research.
We include a discussion of a number of promising avenues for future work that can build
on top of our results and model checkpoints:
(i) Reducing the entropy of our MTP LM to zero is the goal of the training process, but our
training process may not be the best procedure; future work could explore other strategies for
decreasing output entropy. We expect that as entropy in the output distribution approaches
zero, we can conceivably produce many more tokens during each forward pass while
maintaining coherence.
(ii) Even under accelerated decoding, our goal is to still faithfully model the highly entropic
distribution of natural text, which is in tension with our acceleration scheme’s implicit low
entropy requirements. Some simple decoding strategies that would force non-determinism
purely at test time are possible (e.g. sampling from the softmax whenever k = 1), but future
work could incorporate a source of randomness more naively into the model to increase roll
out diversity.
(iii) Our models could be used for self-speculative decoding. In this work we specifically
avoid incorporating a verification pass to explore whether or not fast generation of k tokens
in a single shot without verification is even feasible. However, in principle, the proposals
made by our MTP model could be used for self-speculative decoding. The MTP model
could verify its own predictions during each subsequent forward pass to achieve more
modest but lossless speedups. We expect that our KV caching strategy is amenable to an
additional step where previously emitted tokens are verified before committing them to the
cache (see Appendix B).
(iv) Our simple MTP implementation involves using a trainable mask token to extend the
sequence passed into the model by k positions, creating additional slots for computation
within the model, but other MTP architectures are possible. In principle, adding small
auxiliary prediction heads or modules can enable MTP and it is possible that these less
computationally intensive implementations are as readily trainable and performant as our
proposal, even under the same objective.
(v) Our online distillation objective can be viewed as a simple type of RL, but a full-fledged
policy optimization approach may yield better results. For simplicity and parallelizability,
during training we use a single forward pass to produce just one block of k tokens at each
masked region within a training sample. However, a more long horizon approach is possible
where the student MTP model rolls out its own full sequence comprising many chunks
of k tokens over multiple forward passes that is scored using a more traditional reward
signal. This could result in a beneficial collapse in entropy that improves output quality and
acceleration.
(vi) We present a preliminary set of results on how our approach would behave in a
production inference environment via a prototype implementation within SGLang (see
Section C.3 for details). While we observe promising scaling across the board under the
static k strategy and strong results for the ConfAdapt scheme on single user requests, our
naive implementation and the overheads associated with the ConfAdapt scheme limit the
scaling we observe under continuous batching. As we are not systems experts, we expect
that there is room for deeper engineering optimizations that would address these issues in
production.
13
