===== PAGE 15 =====

Preprint. Under review.
During training, since we primarily consider instruction following datasets with variable
lengths, we have to choose how to train the model to emit an EOS token. Our convention is
to treat the first MTP region in which an EOS appears in the ground truth sequence as the
determiner of the last MTP region for this sample in the training data. Then, we pad out the
sequence with more EOS tokens to fill this last k token region. Beyond this region, the rest
of the context window is filled with padding and ignored completely by the computation
and objective.
At inference time, we therefore hope that the model has then learned to emit at least one
EOS token in the appropriate point in the sequence. During generation, if any of the tokens
emitted by the MTP model in a given k token decoding step are stop-tokens, we simply
call this the final step of generation and terminate, trimming off any tokens predicted after
the first EOS. We find that this simple setup provides the MTP model the ability to reliably
generate long sequences that truncate at logical positions that are also not exact multiples of
k.
Pretrained models.
Initially we prototyped our approach using the Llama-3.2-1B base
checkpoint (Grattafiori et al., 2024) to enable low cost, rapid iteration of our design. Then we
upgraded to the Llama-3.1-8B base checkpoint (Grattafiori et al., 2024) to improve overall
performance while exploring loss variations and training hyperparameters (Figure 6 is
derived from experiments with that model). Finally, based on intuitions that post-trained
models generally have lower entropy in their NTP distribution due to training on narrow do-
mains using objectives and datasets that empirically reduce a model’s entropy, we switched
to post-trained initial checkpoints for the final set of experiments and ablations. The pair
of post-trained initial checkpoints used are Llama-3.1-8B-MagpieAlign-SFT-v0.1 (“L3.1-
8B-Magpie” throughout, Xu et al. (2024)) and Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 (“Q3-4B-Inst-2507”
throughout, Yang et al. (2025)).
Finetuning data.
In order to target benchmarks involving reasoning traces where inference
efficiency is most useful in practice, we train our MTP LMs on a dataset of synthetic grade
school math (GSM) problems called MetaMathQA (Yu et al., 2023). The data is a synthetically
generated series of GSM problems with reasoning traces and answers built by taking an
existing set of previously released, hand-written questions, and augmenting them using a
large API based model. We note that this dataset is based on the train split of the official
GSM8K dataset only, the official test set questions used for benchmarking are not included
or used as seed questions. For our experimentation, we also split the 395k raw rows into
subsets for training and validation that are stratified by the unique set of seed questions
such that augmentations of a single seed question fall into the train set, or the validation set,
but not both.
In an ablation, we also consider a more general set of finetuning data: Magpie-Pro-300k-v0.1
and Magpie-Reasoning-150k (“Magpie” hereafter, Xu et al. (2024)). These are also syntheti-
cally generated datasets covering a wide range of instruction following and reasoning tasks,
but we specifically choose it due to the release of a publicly released model checkpoint
that was post-trained directly on these datasets (the aforementioned L3.1-8B-Magpie). We
hypothesize that the affinity between the pretrained initialization of the student policy and
its ability to rapidly learn the MTP behavior may be linked and so we compare the impact
of this training data choice, holding all other settings constant.
Chat Templating.
Both of the main pretrained models we use come equipped with a
chat template. However, preliminary experiments indicated that it was difficult to ensure
that our training data and evaluation data was prepared in such a way that the model
responded accurately under standard k = 1 decoding at the end of training. As a result, we
experimented with various combinations before landing on the following configuration. For
the L3.1-8B-Magpie model, we apply the chat template included with its tokenizer for all
training and evaluation datasets as this performed well. However, for Q3-4B-Inst-2507, after
experimenting with its chat template and observing poor results, we settled on preparing
the training and evaluation data by joining “input” and “response” pairs using just a simple
15
