===== PAGE 24 =====

Preprint. Under review.
server, is measured based on a regex applied to the server’s stdout log looking for the
Decode batch...gen throughput (token/s):... pattern to extract the “(tok/sec)” metric.
The latency, or tokens per second per request as perceived by the client, is measured by
ensuring we run the server with the --enable-metrics --export-metrics-to-file args,
and then parsing the sglang-request-metrics log file to retrieve the completion tokens
and e2e latency fields, dividing them to get the “(toks/sec/sequence)” metric. For both
measurements, the leading 10% of the observations are trimmed to exclude any warm-up
effects for the server during each client run at each concurrency level.
EAGLE-3 details.
We benchmark against EAGLE-3 using the official integration with
SGLang.
docs.sglang.io/advanced features/speculative decoding.html#eagle-3-decoding
The specific evaluation settings are the default parameters suggested in the SGL documen-
tation:
• base model = meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
• draft model = jamesliu1/sglang-EAGLE3-Llama-3.1-Instruct-8B
• speculative steps = 3
• top-k = 4
• draft tokens per step = 16
We note that while our evaluation setup is capped at 16 way concurrency on the client side
for both MTP and EAGLE-3, for the latter, to avoid any throttling of the baseline method, as
stated above, the max batch size and the running requests are allowed to be much higher
for the speculative decoding method. While we believe that the public SGLang integration
of EAGLE-3 is relatively well optimized, there are a range of hyperparameters and the
draft model to choose, and we expect that there exist more performant combinations of
parameters. It is also possible that closed source, forked versions of the implementation
might exist and perform better. However, we reiterate that Figures 5 and 12 are really only
meant to show general “competitiveness” rather than any claim of superiority.
Implementation details for Static k strategy.
To support our static k MTP decoding, we
instantiate the server with the k value and the max batch size stated previously to pre-
compile cudagraphs. Note that the specific underlying target for this k argument is actually
the “query length”. In autoregressive decoding for a NTP model using KV caching, while
the sequence dimension of the matrix of key vector grows as a function of generation step,
the query vector is always singleton; thus the computation is parallelized over the key
dimension. For our static approach, the parallelization dim remains the same, but, for
hidden states of size d, the query vector (1, d) is now a query matrix of size (2k −1, d). As
discussed in Appendix B, we predict k new tokens using k-1 masks, while we recompute
and commit KV states for the previously predicted k tokens, giving us an “active” region, or
query length compilation target, of 2k −1.
Implementation details for ConfAdapt strategy.
For the ConfAdapt scheme, server prepa-
ration is slightly more complex. We instead provide the max k value and graphs are compiled
for a range of inference shapes. For some generations, the number of accepted tokens is large,
and for some it is small, so we must compile graphs for query lengths in the range (k, 2k −1)
to cover the extremal query length cases of accepting just 1 token, all the way up to accepting
the the max number of tokens k. This variability also presents one additional issue. The
SGLang cudagraphs are constructed and identified based on the query length and batch
size (query length, number of sequences being processed simultaneously) with the freely
variable dimension being the key matrix length to accommodate prompts/generations of
different lengths. To naively accommodate the additional variability in the query length
per sequence in this setting, we would also need to compile a new graph for every possible
set of query lengths for each sequence, per batch size. As each graph consumes memory
at runtime, even for modest concurrency levels and max values of k, this would cause a
combinatorial increase in memory overhead.
24
