===== PAGE 2 =====

Preprint. Under review.
Existing work on multi-token prediction (MTP) treats it as merely instrumental to inference
acceleration. Prior work primarily trains MTP heads as speculators whose predictions
must be verified in a secondary stage, or simply uses MTP as an auxiliary objective to try
and improve standard next-token prediction (NTP) decoding. In this work, we pursue
multi-token prediction as a first class, standalone inference paradigm.
Our approach is motivated by the observation that the standard offline cross-entropy loss
has fundamental limitations that make it difficult or even impossible to learn to generate
long, grammatical spans of text. This problem is most clearly illustrated using an example.
Consider a model trained on the two sentences “The zookeeper fed the panda bamboo” and
“The zookeeper fed the lion meat”. If we predict two tokens conditioned on the prefix “The
zookeeper fed the”, then an optimal model should assign equal probability to {panda, lion}
for the next token, followed by equal probabilities for {bamboo, meat}. If we sample both
words at the same time, then half the time our zookeeper feeds the panda meat or the
lion bamboo. In the abstract, a naive multi-token predicting LM would sample each word
independently and ignore the correlations in the joint distribution between tokens. For MTP
to succeed, we need a training loss, and a sampler, that cares about the joint distribution.
In this paper, we propose an RL-inspired training paradigm in which a student model gen-
erates a span of simultaneous token predictions. To avoid the pitfalls of the standard offline
objective, the student output is scored by an LM critic/teacher, rather than being scored
against a known ground-truth token sequence. By comparing the student’s predictions
against the next-token suggestions made by the teacher, we produce an on-policy reward
signal that enables the student to quickly improve the quality of its multi-token predictions.
After exploring how to implement this training objective in an efficient and scalable way,
we turn our attention to inference time sampling strategies. While our method is capable
of producing blocks of k tokens on every forward pass for k as large as 16, we can avoid
compromising accuracy while still achieving robust speedups using an adaptive strategy in
which tokens are only kept if they have high confidence. This strategy naturally enables
the model to produce multiple “easy” tokens on a forward pass, while focusing its costly
single-token passes on “hard” tokens that require more computational effort. This automatic
moderation of the speed vs. accuracy tradeoff in various domains like grade school math,
instruction following, and open-ended generation allows us to achieve between 2× and 5×
acceleration with minimal impact on generation quality.
2
Related Work
Multi-token prediction.
Recent work explores architectural and training modifications for
building LMs with multi-token-prediction abilities. Samragh et al. (2025) enhance coherence
of predicted tokens by augmenting the unembedding layer with an MLP that integrates the
previously sampled token’s embedding, and further use MTP tokens as drafts in speculative
decoding. Cai et al. (2025) finetune a single-layer MTP module via self-distillation with
cross-entropy loss, observing that self-distilled data better aligns MTP predictions with
baseline model outputs. Self-distilled training data has also been used in the Parallel Token
Prediction models of Draxler et al. (2025) and the Jacobi Forcing Models of Hu et al. (2025).
We primarily motivate MTP as a means to accelerate generation without significant quality
loss, but other work treats MTP as a surrogate training objective component to improve
next-token modeling (Liu et al., 2024), or as a way to address failure modes in long-horizon
planning by reducing reliance on teacher-forcing prefixes (Bachmann & Nagarajan, 2024;
Mahajan et al., 2025).
Speculative decoding.
Leviathan et al. (2023), Chen et al. (2023), and Li et al. (2025) show
that a faster LM can sequentially produce draft tokens that a larger LM verifies in parallel,
accepting only tokens the larger LM would itself generate—a lossless criterion that can still
yield speedups. Some approaches use a dedicated MTP module as the speculator (Cai et al.,
2024). However, real-world speedups have been questioned due to factors like multi-user
batching and dataset sensitivity (Liu et al., 2025).
2
