===== PAGE 16 =====

Preprint. Under review.
“\n\n” string and prepending a BOS token to every full input. In all tables, the setting for
the model is noted under its name.
Hyperparameters.
In addition to the initialization and training datasets, we adopt a
standard set of hyperparameters for elements of the training pipeline not specific to our
MTP implementation and objective. We train our models using the AdamW optimizer using
PyTorch default settings and a learning rate schedule of 2000 steps of warm-up followed
by a constant peak learning rate of 1e −5; our goal is to keep the model in a “finetuning”
regime where the student’s initial capabilities and behaviors are maintained whilst the MTP
abilities are acquired. All parameters in the student model are made trainable, while the
teacher model remains frozen.
As our primary training dataset, MetaMathQA, contains relatively short samples (avg.
∼220 tokens under the Llama 3 tokenizer), we cap the overall sequence length (training
context window, N) at 160 tokens for all MetaMathQA runs. For ablations using the Magpie
datasets whose average lengths are longer, we use a sequence length of 1024 tokens. For
experiments with MetaMathQA, we use a global batch size of 128 sequences across all
devices training in data parallel, and for the Magpie dataset experiments we use a global
batch size of 16. While not perfectly equivalent, the number of tokens per optimization step
is therefore within the same order of magnitude for both experiments. Based on a desire to
balance the supervision density of our objective with the length of prefixes that the model is
exposed to, we set the number of MTP regions M in a given sequence during training to
be M = N/(2k) as illustrated in Figure 2 (we use the largest k value 16 as the value when
choosing M, eg. M = N/(2kmax)).
For implementation simplicity, while the offset and k value are randomized during training,
M is left fixed meaning that all sampled values of offset and k produce a lower number
of supervised positions (eg. the sum of the “Pred:” row in Figure 2) than the maximum
possible which is achieved when the offset is 0 and the sampled k is the maximum. We use
a batch size of 128 sequences for the models trained on MetaMathQA, and a batch size of 16
for the models trained on the Magpie datasets. While not scaled exactly, due to the > 5×
larger sequence length for the latter, the reduced batch size still achieves in the same order of
magnitude number of tokens per optimization step. Over the course of approximately 100k
training iterations, for the MetaMathQA models based on the setting of M = N/(2kmax),
this equates to an upper bound of 1B supervised tokens if assuming a fixed value k = kmax
and an offset of 0. Since 160/(2 ∗16) = 5 regions, we have 100e3 ∗128 ∗(5 ∗16) = 1.024B
tokens. For the actual runs under randomization, in expectation the k value is closer to half
of the max, so our models only see a total of 500M supervised tokens.
As illustrated in Figure 2, more tokens of raw input are required as input at each step than
are actually supervised if k is randomized following the static M setting described above.
As there are about 50M tokens available in the MetaMathQA dataset assuming the Llama
3 tokenizer and a truncation length of 160, this results in ∼35 epochs of training for the
L3.1-8B-Magpie based model. While early experiments indicate that overfitting is possible at
more extreme durations, due to the offset and k value randomization strategies, the number
of unique batches of prefix and MTP prediction problems in a dataset with D rows is actually
> D. These additional views of the same sample—approximately proportional to the unique
combinations of block offset and k possible under a given set of hyperparameters—likely
make the effective number of epochs on the same exact batch of prepared and masked
inputs much lower than (steps * microbatch size)/D, if not close to even just 1. We believe
that the result of transfer learning from MetaMathQA to benchmarks beyond GSM8K also
suggest that overfitting isn’t necessarily an issue in our specific experimental settings.
The main models containing 8B and 4B parameters are both trainable at the settings de-
scribed using one node of 4×GH200 GPUs using FSDP based model and data parallelism.
The training runs to 100k steps take approximately 24-36 hours of continuous runtime
depending on the model. Each benchmark evaluation can be performed on a single GH200
GPU and runtime varies depending on the specific settings of k, the size and average
response length for the benchmark itself.
16
