===== PAGE 7 =====

Preprint. Under review.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 3: Visualization of an attention masks with rolling offsets of (a) 0 and (b) -2 for a
fixed k = 3, and then with variable k masking at (c) k = 3 and (d) k = 5 with a fixed offset
of 0. Randomized offsets and k values enable supervision on MTP problems with many
different prefix lengths and MTP window sizes during the same training run.
its predictions and the quality of the sequence emitted. In Figure 6 we present empirical
evidence of this relationship from an early experiment. In response to this confirmation
we devised a simple confidence-adaptive scheme (ConfAdapt) that allows us to set the k value
dynamically at each decoding step based on this confidence heuristic. Given a threshold
value τ, such as 90%, the CA strategy finds the greatest index k′ ∈(1, kmax) such that
argmaxj(ℓij) > τ, ∀i ∈(1, k′), and uses that index as the k value for this decoding step. This
creates a dynamic range of k values during a single generation which we compute statistics
over to report average “acceleration factors”.
While in the main experimental configuration we do randomize the value of k during each
training step, we do not directly train for any sort of dynamic decoding procedure where k
varies at each generation step within a single response. However, to our surprise, the MTP
models we train turn out to be amenable to the simple dynamic decoding strategy described
above, and it achieves pareto-optimal results when compared to static strategies.
5
Experiments
We adapt pretrained NTP LMs into MTP LMs and evaluate their performance on both
mathematical reasoning benchmarks and open ended knowledge intensive generative tasks.
5.1
Setup
We describe all aspects of our training and evaluation setup in detail in Appendix B, but to
support interpretation of the main experimental results, we succinctly note the most critical
design parameters here. The pair of initial checkpoints used are Llama-3.1-8B-MagpieAlign-
SFT-v0.1 (“L3.1-8B-Magpie” hereafter, Xu et al. (2024)) and Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 (“Q3-4B-
Inst-2507” hereafter, Yang et al. (2025)). In order to target a benchmark involving reasoning
traces where inference efficiency is particularly useful in practice, we tune our MTP LMs on
a dataset of synthetic grade school math (GSM) problems called MetaMathQA (Yu et al.,
2023).
Based on the results of preliminary experiments, unless stated otherwise, we train with
randomized block mask offsets and randomized k values in the range [2, 16]; this implicitly
sets a natural choice of kmax at 16 during inference using the ConftAdapt scheme. We also use
the “hard teacher” variation on Equation (3) where the readout function for the teacher NTP
model is the argmax rather than softmax as early experiments suggested that this lowers the
student model’s output entropy more rapidly. Under k value randomization the expected k
value is closer to 9. Over the course of the ∼100k steps of training our models see a total of
∼500M supervised tokens (discussion and calculations in Appendix B).
To assess the performance of our main models we select the following set of generative
benchmarks to test the technical and long form generation capabilities of our MTP LMs:
GSM8K, AIME25, GPQA, BBH, IFEVAL, and CNN DailyMail. We describe the exact
evaluation parameters for all datasets in Appendix B. However, since we find the results on
7
