===== PAGE 4 =====

Preprint. Under review.
Therefore, the multi-token prediction distribution parametrized by the model under the
probabilistic readout would be
Pθ(xi:i+k|x1:i) := g(ℓi:i+k) = softmax(ℓi:i+k).
A naive training loop for MTP can be constructed using a standard offline objective in which
all k token predictions are compared to k ground-truth targets, computing the cross-entropy
loss. However, in the next section we will introduce our proposal for a MTP training
objective that avoids the potential pitfalls with such an approach.
3.3
“Student Forced” Online MTP
We propose an RL-inspired alternate objective that rewards a coherent joint token distribu-
tion in a natural way. Consider a strong oracle NTP LM that will serve as our critic/teacher.
Rather than use the ground truth next token distribution as the target distribution, we
instead train the student MTP model, PθS, to predict k next tokens that a strong teacher NTP
model, PθT, would assign a high likelihood to. In our above example, an oracle LM would
assign a low likelihood (high loss) to “The zookeeper fed the lion bamboo,” and so the
student trained to minimize the teacher’s criticism would not produce this sentence.
As the teacher is a standard NTP model, it does not parametrize the joint token distribution
natively. However, by the chain rule of probability, we can use it to score the likelihood of a
k token sequence y′ ∈Vk proposed by the student. To materialize this sequence, we apply
the deterministic readout to the student’s logits so that y′ := (y1, y2, ...yk) = argmax(ℓi:i+k).
Then, we compute the likelihood of these generated tokens under the teacher conditioned
on the ground truth prefix according to:
PθT(y′|x1:i) =
k
∏
j=1
PθT(y′
j|y′
1:j−1 ⊕x1:i).
(2)
Finally, we define our new online objective as the KL divergence between the likelihood
assigned to y′ by the student-forced teacher and the student’s MTP distribution over its
own generation y′. For a sequence X broken up into R multi-token-prediction regions (see
Figure 2), each region r with prefix x1:ir, the online training objective is:
LMTP = −1
R
R
∑
r=1
PθT(y′|x1:ir) log PθS(y′|x1:ir)
(3)
Note that even though it is non-zero in general, we omit the entropy term in the KL involving
only PθT as it is constant w.r.t. optimization of the student parameters θS.
Advantages of the online approach.
The objective presented in Equation (3) has a few
desirable properties. First, the student forcing operation means the objective is on-policy.
We actually “roll out” a sequence of k tokens from the student model and then compute a
“reward” based on how likely a strong oracle model thinks they are. Note that, unlike in
conventional RL for LMs, our roll outs comprise a single forward pass. Second, it is also
stable across training steps and sequences in the full training corpus. Computing next token
likelihoods in service of Equation (2) requires that the teacher model be implemented using
the softmax readout function. However, we are not sampling from the teacher’s distribution,
only materializing it. This ensures that the feedback the teacher provides given the same
ground truth prefix and student proposal y′ ⊕x1:i is deterministic and non-contradictory.
We expect that an online MTP objective such as ours allows the student model to more
efficiently learn to produce a coherent MTP distribution than it would under an offline objec-
tive. Indeed, our ablations in Figures 13 and 14 show that this true in practice. Training in an
offline manner where PθT in Equation (3) is replaced with delta distribution corresponding
to the ground truth tokens in the training data yields inferior results even when the dataset
comprises completions generated using the teacher model itself.
4
