===== PAGE 10 =====

Preprint. Under review.
6
Conclusion
Our methodology produces MTP LMs with accelerated decoding abilities using a straight-
forward recipe and modest computational resources. While techniques in the speculative
decoding literature achieve similar levels of acceleration under certain conditions, they
require the training of additional speculator modules and the development and maintenance
of complex inference implementations to handle the proposal and verification steps. Our
approach is much simpler but achieves similar results. More importantly, our results suggest
that decoding acceleration need not rely solely on inference-time mechanisms. By absorbing
some modeling complexity into the main parameters themselves, our MTP strategy provides
a complementary and largely orthogonal axis to existing accelerated decoding methods.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by DARPA TIAMAT, the NSF TRAILS Institute (2229885), and
Coefficient Giving. Computing resources for this project were supported in part by the
Swiss National Supercomputing Center (CSCS). Prepared in collaboration with Lawrence
Livermore National Lab (LLNL) under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344 and supported by
the LLNL-LDRD Program under Project No. 24-ERD-010 (LLNL-CONF-2015543).
We would also like to acknowledge Jonas Geiping and Sean McLeish for helpful discussions
throughout the research process on infrastructure and tooling for experimentation on the
public supercomputers at CSCS and LLNL.
Responsible Disclosure of LLM Use
Following “Policy 1” we briefly describe the use of LLMs and coding agents in our research.
Throughout the implementation process, single functions and standalone scripts were gen-
erated and iterated upon with the help of LLMs. Throughout the experimentation process,
LLMs were used to help write data transformation and plotting code to analyze results.
Finally, the integration of our method with the production ready SGLang inference engine
was primarily implemented by a coding agent under the guidance of one of the authors; the
author debugged and sanity checked the model’s work throughout the integration process.
References
Rishabh Agarwal, Nino Vieillard, Yongchao Zhou, Piotr Stanczyk, Sabela Ramos Garea,
Matthieu Geist, and Olivier Bachem. On-policy distillation of language models: Learning
from self-generated mistakes. In The twelfth international conference on learning representa-
tions, 2024.
Shivam Agarwal, Zimin Zhang, Lifan Yuan, Jiawei Han, and Hao Peng. The unreasonable
effectiveness of entropy minimization in llm reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15134,
2025.
Gregor Bachmann and Vaishnavh Nagarajan. The pitfalls of next-token prediction. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.06963, 2024.
Tianle Cai, Yuhong Li, Zhengyang Geng, Hongwu Peng, Jason D Lee, Deming Chen, and
Tri Dao. Medusa: Simple llm inference acceleration framework with multiple decoding
heads. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10774, 2024.
Yuxuan Cai, Xiaozhuan Liang, Xinghua Wang, Jin Ma, Haijin Liang, Jinwen Luo, Xinyu
Zuo, Lisheng Duan, Yuyang Yin, and Xi Chen. Fastmtp: Accelerating llm inference with
enhanced multi-token prediction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.18362, 2025.
Charlie Chen, Sebastian Borgeaud, Geoffrey Irving, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Laurent Sifre,
and John Jumper. Accelerating large language model decoding with speculative sampling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.01318, 2023.
10
