                                         AscendKernelGen: A Systematic Study of LLM-Based Kernel Generation
                                                             for Neural Processing Units
                                                                  System Design, Data Construction, Fine-Tuning, and Comprehensive Evaluation

                                                    Xinzi Cao1,3 * , Jianyang Zhai1,3 * , Pengfei Li2 * , Zhiheng Hu2 * , Cen Yan2 ,
                                                Bingxu Mu2 , Guanghuan Fang2 , Bin She2 , Jiayu Li2 , Yihan Su2 , Dongyang Tao2 ,
                                             Xiansong Huang1 , Fan Xu1 , Feidiao Yang1 , Yao Lu1 , Chang-Dong Wang3 , Yutong Lu3 ,
                                                               Weicheng Xue1† , Bin Zhou1† , Yonghong Tian1,4†
                                                       1
                                                           Pengcheng Laboratory, 2 Huawei, 3 Sun Yat-sen University, 4 Peking University
                                                                   Correspondence: xuewch@pcl.ac.cn, senosy@gmail.com, yhtian@pku.edu.cn

                                                                                                  Abstract
arXiv:2601.07160v2 [cs.AI] 17 Apr 2026




                                                  To meet the ever-increasing demand for computational efﬁciency, Neural Processing Units (NPUs) have
                                                  become critical in modern AI infrastructure. However, unlocking their full potential requires developing
                                                  high-performance compute kernels using vendor-speciﬁc Domain-Speciﬁc Languages (DSLs), a task that
                                                  demands deep hardware expertise and is labor-intensive. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have
                                                  shown promise in general code generation, they struggle with the strict constraints and scarcity of training
                                                  data in the NPU domain. Our preliminary study reveals that state-of-the-art general-purpose LLMs fail
                                                  to generate functional complex kernels for Ascend NPUs, yielding a near-zero success rate. To address
                                                  these challenges, we propose AscendKernelGen, a generation-evaluation integrated framework for NPU
                                                  kernel development. We introduce Ascend-CoT, a high-quality dataset incorporating chain-of-thought
                                                  reasoning derived from real-world kernel implementations, and KernelGen-LM, a domain-adaptive model
                                                  trained via supervised ﬁne-tuning and reinforcement learning with execution feedback. Furthermore, we
                                                  design NPUKernelBench, a comprehensive benchmark for assessing compilation, correctness, and perfor-
                                                  mance across varying complexity levels. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach signiﬁcantly
                                                  bridges the gap between general LLMs and hardware-speciﬁc coding. Speciﬁcally, the compilation suc-
                                                  cess rate on complex Level-2 kernels improves from 0% to 95.5% (Pass@10), while functional correctness
                                                  achieves 64.3% compared to the baseline’s complete failure. These results highlight the critical role of
                                                  domain-speciﬁc reasoning and rigorous evaluation in automating accelerator-aware code generation. As-
                                                  cendKernGen is available at AscendKernGen and NPUKernelBench.

                                         1        Introduction
                                         The rapid advancement of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), particularly deep learning, has fundamentally re-
                                         shaped modern computing architectures. To meet the ever-increasing demand for computational efﬁ-
                                         ciency and throughput, domain-speciﬁc accelerators have emerged as a key solution. Among them,
                                         Neural Processing Units (NPUs), such as Huawei’s Ascend platform (Liao et al., 2021; Xue et al., 2024;
                                         Wróblewski et al., 2025), play a critical role in contemporary AI infrastructure by providing high perfor-
                                         mance for deep learning workloads. However, the practical efﬁciency of these accelerators is determined
                                         not only by hardware capabilities, but also by the quality of the underlying compute kernels. As a re-
                                         sult, developing high-performance, hardware-adapted kernels is a prerequisite for fully unlocking the
                                         potential of NPU platforms.
                                            Writing such kernels remains extremely challenging. NPU kernel development typically relies on
                                         highly specialized, vendor-speciﬁc domain-speciﬁc languages (DSLs), such as AscendC, which require
                                         developers to possess deep expertise in hardware architecture. This includes ﬁne-grained management of
                                         hierarchical memory systems (e.g., global versus on-chip memory), carefully designed data tiling strate-
                                         gies, asynchronous pipeline programming for overlapping computation and data movement, and explicit
                                         utilization of vector (SIMD) and matrix (Cube) execution units. The resulting learning curve is steep,
                                         making manual kernel development time-consuming, costly, and error-prone. Consequently, kernel op-
                                         timization has become a major bottleneck in the rapid iteration and deployment of AI applications on
                                         NPU architectures.
                                              * Co-ﬁrst author
                                              †
                                                  Corresponding author
   At a higher level, this challenge exposes a fundamental limitation of current code generation ap-
proaches: general-purpose programming knowledge is insufﬁcient for generating correct and efﬁcient
code in highly specialized, hardware-speciﬁc domains. Motivated by the success of Large Language
Models (LLMs) in general-purpose code generation, both academia and industry have explored their use
for automating kernel development. However, this approach faces a critical obstacle. The knowledge re-
quired for hardware-speciﬁc DSLs differs fundamentally from that of general-purpose programming lan-
guages, encompassing strict API constraints, architecture-dependent semantics, and performance-critical
optimization patterns. Moreover, high-quality training data in this domain is extremely scarce, leaving
general-purpose LLMs poorly equipped to handle such tasks.
   Our preliminary evaluation, summarized in Table 1, conﬁrms this limitation empirically. Even
state-of-the-art general-purpose LLMs (e.g., Qwen 3) perform extremely poorly when generating As-
cendC kernels in a zero-shot setting. These models frequently hallucinate non-existent APIs (e.g.,
AscendC::Softmax) or severely misuse core hardware interfaces, leading to exceptionally high compila-
tion failure rates. For complex L2/L3 kernels, the execution success rate drops to around 0%, indicating
that, without domain-speciﬁc adaptation, general-purpose LLMs are effectively unusable for non-trivial
NPU kernel development.
        Table 1: Zero-shot performance of general-purpose LLMs on the NPUKernelBench benchmark.

          Model                  Task Type            Compilation     Functional Correctness
                                                      Success Rate      (Post-Compilation)
                                 L1 (Simple)              8.22%                 1.08%
          Qwen3-8B
                                 L2/L3 (Complex)          1.39%                 0.00%
                                 L1 (Simple)              9.19%                 0.47%
          Qwen2.5-Coder-7B
                                 L2/L3 (Complex)          0.40%                 0.00%
                                 L1 (Simple)             23.97%                 0.69%
          Llama3.1-8B
                                 L2/L3 (Complex)         19.44%                 0.00%
                                 L1 (Simple)              0.00%                 0.00%
          Mistral-7B
                                 L2/L3 (Complex)          0.00%                 0.00%

   These observations suggest that enabling LLMs to generate high-quality NPU kernels requires two key
advancements. First, the model must acquire a deep understanding of the hardware-speciﬁc programming
paradigm, including API constraints and architectural characteristics. Second, a professional and reliable
evaluation framework is necessary to rigorously assess not only compilation success, but also functional
correctness and performance, which are all critical for kernel-level code.
   To address these challenges, we propose AscendKernelGen, a generation–evaluation integrated
framework for NPU kernel development. Our contributions are threefold:
  1. A Domain-Speciﬁc Reasoning Dataset for Kernel Generation. We construct and release Ascend-
     CoT, a high-quality dataset designed to capture the structured reasoning processes required for low-
     level NPU kernel programming. The dataset is curated from real-world kernel implementations
     and includes detailed annotations that reﬂect pipeline construction, synchronization logic, and arith-
     metic reasoning patterns.
  2. Domain-Adaptive Post-Training for Low-Level Code Generation. Building on a strong base
     LLM, we introduce a domain-adaptive post-training strategy that explicitly targets the reasoning
     challenges of NPU kernel synthesis. The resulting model, KernelGen-LM, demonstrates substan-
     tially improved compilation success and functional correctness compared to general-purpose code
     models.
  3. A Comprehensive Evaluation Benchmark for NPU Kernels. We design NPUKernelBench, an
     evaluation framework that systematically assesses generated kernels along three dimensions: com-
     pilation success, functional correctness, and performance. Its dual-path evaluation design enables
      rigorous analysis of both static-shape optimization and dynamic-shape robustness, providing a reli-
      able benchmark for future research on accelerator-aware code generation.

   Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. After domain-adaptive
post-training on the Ascend-CoT dataset, the model exhibits substantial improvements in kernel genera-
tion quality, particularly on complex kernels that are nearly unsolvable in zero-shot settings. Both com-
pilation success and functional correctness improve consistently across difﬁculty levels, indicating that
domain-speciﬁc reasoning supervision is crucial for bridging the gap between general-purpose LLMs
and hardware-speciﬁc kernel programming.
   The remainder of this work is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews prior research on LLM-based
code generation, traditional hardware-speciﬁc kernel optimization and benchmarks for code generation.
Section 3 introduces the programming abstractions and hardware constraints that characterize NPU ker-
nel development. Section 4 presents an overview of the AscendKernelGen framework, covering both the
kernel generation pipeline and the hardware-grounded evaluation workﬂow. Section 5 describes the con-
struction of the training data, including documentation-based CoT, code-centric CoT, and general CoT
data. Section 6 details the domain-adaptive ﬁne-tuning process for LLM-based NPU kernel generation.
Section 7 introduces NPUKernelBench, our evaluation benchmark for assessing compilation, correctness,
and performance on real NPU hardware. Section 8 reports the experimental setup and provides an in-
depth analysis of the empirical results. Finally, Section 9 concludes the report and discusses directions
for future work.

2     Related Works
Our work lies at the intersection of large-scale modelbased code generation and hardware-speciﬁc ker-
nel optimization. In this section, we review prior work from four perspectives: general-purpose code
generation with LLMs, traditional hardware kernel optimization, LLM-based kernel generation, and
benchmarking for code generation.

2.1    Large-Scale Models for General-Purpose Code Generation
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable progress in general-purpose code gener-
ation across mainstream programming languages such as Python, C++, and Java. Representative systems
include OpenAI’s Codex (Chen, 2021), AlphaCode (Novikov et al., 2025), Code Llama (Roziere et al.,
2023), Qwen2.5/3-Coder (Hui et al., 2024), and CodeRL (Le et al., 2022), enabling applications such as
code completion, refactoring, and competitive programming.
   Despite these advances, general-purpose LLMs remain limited when applied to domain-speciﬁc code
generation tasks that involve specialized APIs and strict semantic constraints (Gu et al., 2025). In par-
ticular, hardware-speciﬁc programming languages impose requirements that differ fundamentally from
general-purpose software development, including explicit memory hierarchy management, architecture-
dependent execution semantics, and performance-critical correctness constraints. When faced with such
settings, LLMs often fail to generate compilable or semantically valid code, motivating the need for
domain-adaptive data and training strategies.

2.2    Traditional Hardware-Speciﬁc Kernel Optimization
Prior to the adoption of LLMs, kernel optimization for specialized hardware primarily relied on compiler-
based and auto-tuning approaches. Auto-tuning frameworks such as TVM (Chen et al., 2018) and
Ansor (Zheng et al., 2020) search over scheduling and optimization spaces to improve performance
across diverse hardware backends. High-level abstractions and domain-speciﬁc languages, including
Halide (Ragan-Kelley et al., 2013), Triton (Tillet et al., 2019), and MLIR (Lattner et al., 2020), decouple
algorithm speciﬁcation from execution scheduling, substantially lowering the barrier to kernel optimiza-
tion on GPUs and other accelerators. Similarly, TensorFlow XLA (Snider and Liang, 2023) and PyTorch
2.0 (Ansel et al., 2024) adopt compiler-based pipelines to transform high-level computation graphs into
optimized backend-speciﬁc kernels.
   More specialized approaches leverage polyhedral compilation techniques to model and optimize loop
transformations systematically. Representative systems include Tensor Comprehensions (Vasilache et al.,
2018), Tiramisu (Baghdadi et al., 2019), and AKG (Zhao et al., 2021), the latter of which targets NPUs by
modeling heterogeneous compute units and complex memory hierarchies. Other efforts explore operator-
level search and algebraic transformation, such as TASO (Jia et al., 2019), PET (Wang et al., 2021), and
EINNET (Zheng et al., 2023). In addition, platform-speciﬁc libraries like CUTLASS (Markidis et al.,
2018) and Liger-Kernel (Hsu et al., 2024) provide hand-optimized kernels for particular hardwarework-
load combinations.
   While these methods can achieve high performance, they typically require substantial expert knowl-
edge, incur high search or development costs, and offer limited generalization across architectures.
General-purpose compilers often lack the ﬂexibility to adapt to closed or interface-constrained platforms,
whereas platform-speciﬁc libraries sacriﬁce portability. These limitations motivate exploration of more
ﬂexible, learning-based kernel generation approaches.

2.3   LLM-based Generation for Hardware Kernels
Inspired by the success of LLMs in general-purpose programming, recent work has begun to explore
their application to hardware kernel generation, primarily within mature ecosystems such as CUDA
GPUs and TPUs. Early efforts focus on direct kernel generation via prompting and in-context learning, as
exempliﬁed by CUDA-LLM (Chen et al., 2025) and AI CUDA Engineer (Lange et al., 2025). Subsequent
work introduces domain adaptation through supervised ﬁne-tuning, such as KernelLLM (Fisches et al.,
2025), which demonstrates that compact, domain-speciﬁc models can generate competitive GPU kernels.
   More recent studies incorporate reinforcement learning and execution feedback to iteratively reﬁne
generated kernels. Systems such as Kevin (Baronio et al., 2025), CUDA-L1 (Li et al., 2025b), AutoTri-
ton (Li et al., 2025a), and TritonRL (Woo et al., 2025) show that combining supervised initialization with
execution-guided optimization can signiﬁcantly improve correctness and performance. In parallel, agen-
tic and multi-agent frameworks have been proposed to automate kernel optimization through planning,
debugging, and search, including EvoEngineer (Guo et al., 2025), STARK (Dong et al., 2025), and Cud-
aForge (Zhang et al., 2025). Related efforts also explore retrieval-augmented and graph-based reasoning
for kernel optimization (Gong et al., 2025).
   Despite these advances, existing LLM-based kernel generation methods largely focus on open and
well-documented platforms such as CUDA and TPU, beneﬁting from mature toolchains and abundant
training data. In contrast, LLM-driven kernel generation for emerging NPU platforms with proprietary
programming models remains underexplored.

2.4   Benchmarking for Code Generation
Evaluation of LLM-generated code in general-purpose domains has been standardized by benchmarks
such as HumanEval (Chen, 2021) and MBPP (Austin et al., 2021). However, these benchmarks focus
primarily on functional correctness and are ill-suited for hardware kernel generation, where compilation
success, hardware-constrained correctness, and performance metrics are equally critical.
   To address this gap, hardware-oriented benchmarks such as KernelBench (Ouyang et al., 2025) and
MultiKernelBench (Wen et al., 2025) extend evaluation to include compilation and performance. While
these benchmarks represent an important step forward, they typically adopt a single-path evaluation
paradigm that requires generation of complete hostdevice code for all tasks. This design introduces
unnecessary complexity for simple kernels and limits ﬂexibility in assessing different levels of kernel
abstraction. More recent systems, such as TritonGym (Anonymous, 2025), provide interactive and tool-
centric evaluation environments for GPU kernels.
   Overall, there remains a lack of a ﬂexible, comprehensive evaluation framework tailored to NPU kernel
generation that can jointly assess kernel-only optimization and full host-device integration. Addressing
this gap is essential for reliably measuring progress in LLM-based kernel generation for specialized
hardware platforms.
3     Programming Abstractions and Constraints for NPU Kernel Generation
This section characterizes the programming abstraction underlying low-level NPU kernel development
and explains why this abstraction poses fundamental challenges for LLM-based kernel generation.
Rather than enumerating hardware-speciﬁc details, we focus on the structural properties of kernel pro-
grams that jointly determine correctness and performance.

3.1    A Structured Kernel Programming Abstraction
We view a low-level NPU kernel as a statically structured program that jointly speciﬁes global data par-
titioning, asynchronous pipeline stages, and explicit synchronization semantics under a single replicated
execution template.
    Under this abstraction, a single kernel program is replicated across multiple processing units following
a data-parallel execution model. Each kernel instance operates on a distinct slice of global data deter-
mined by a logical block index. As a result, kernel code must explicitly compute global memory offsets,
valid data ranges, and boundary conditions, instead of relying on implicit indexing mechanisms.
    Computation is further organized as an explicit asynchronous pipeline. Data loading, computation,
and write-back are mapped to independent hardware units and are intended to overlap in time. This
overlap is not managed by the runtime. Instead, the kernel program must explicitly encode producer–
consumer relationships between pipeline stages through synchronization primitives, forming a statically
deﬁned execution schedule.
    This structure is exposed through low-level programming interfaces that require explicit speciﬁcation
of memory access patterns, strides, masks, and synchronization events. Consequently, arithmetic com-
putation, data movement, and control ﬂow are tightly coupled within the kernel code, rather than being
inferred or optimized automatically.

3.2    Implications for LLM-Based Kernel Generation
The structured nature of this kernel programming abstraction imposes reasoning requirements that go
beyond local code synthesis, making low-level NPU kernel generation particularly challenging for Large
Language Models.

Long-range semantic dependencies. Kernel correctness frequently depends on auxiliary parameters,
such as block indices, tiling factors, and boundary sizes, which are computed outside the kernel and
passed in at runtime. These parameters are referenced across multiple pipeline stages and simultane-
ously control memory access and synchronization behavior. Generating correct kernel code therefore
requires maintaining semantic consistency across separated code regions, demanding long-range depen-
dency reasoning rather than local pattern completion.

Explicit synchronization reasoning. Asynchronous pipeline stages communicate exclusively through
manually inserted synchronization primitives. Correct execution relies on precise pairing and ordering
of these operations to enforce producer–consumer relationships. Missing, redundant, or misordered
synchronization can lead to deadlocks or silent data hazards, making correctness contingent on reasoning
about dynamic execution ordering rather than linear instruction sequences.

Boundary-sensitive arithmetic reasoning. Because data dimensions are often not aligned with
hardware-preferred block sizes, kernel code must explicitly handle boundary cases through offset com-
putation and masking logic. This requires precise arithmetic reasoning over loop bounds, indices, and
validity conditions. Small errors in these calculations frequently result in incorrect outputs or invalid
memory accesses.

Layout-aware representation reasoning. Different pipeline stages may operate on distinct physical
data layouts optimized for speciﬁc execution units. Kernel code must correctly manage layout transitions
while preserving logical tensor semantics. This separation between physical representation and abstract
tensor meaning requires reasoning beyond shape-level manipulation and is difﬁcult to infer implicitly.
    NPUKernelBench                                                                                                                                                                                               Automated Evaluation Pipeline
                                 Instruction Prompt                                              LLM ensembles                                          LLM Generated Code                                                     Compilation

                                                               API_Desc.md
    Role: "You are a professional                                                                                                              Namespace optiling{           Class aclnnKernelName{
                                                 ### aclnnKernelName                                                                                                         __aicore__inline
    Ascend kernel development                                                                                                                  implementation…
                                                                                                                                                                             aclnnKernelName(){}
                                                                                                                                               }                                                                    Correctness & Performance
    engineer.”                                                                                                                                                               implementation…}             Eva.
                                                               Host Template
    Target Language and API: “Please     +              namespace optiling {?}                                                                 Namespace ops{
                                                                                                                                                                             extern “c” __global__
                                                                                                                                                                             __aicore__ void
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          class Model(nn.Module):
    use Ascend C for development.”                                    c                                                                        Class aclnnKernelName :       kernel_name (para 1, para
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               def __init__(self):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   super(Model, self).__init__()
    ……                                                                                                                                         public OpDef{                 2, workspace, tiling){                            def forward(self, input)
                                                                                                                                               implementation…
                                                              Kernel Template                                                                  }
                                                                                                                                                                             GET_TILING_DATA(tiling_
                                                                                                                                                                             data, tiling);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      return some calculation…
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          class ModelNew(nn.Module):
           Instructions                           extern "C" __global__ __aicore__                                                             }                             implementation…}                                 def __init__(self):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  super(ModelNew, self).__init__()
                                                  void kernel_name(){?}                                                                                                                                                       def forward(self, input)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  return
                                                               Hardware.txt                                                                                                                                               kernel_gen_ops.kernel_name(input)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Difference < Abs_error
                                                                                                                                                     Host Code                    Kernel Code
                                                               Kernel Task                       KernelGen-LM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Execution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Execution Latency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Latency Vs.Vs.




                                                                                                                  5.1.1. Question:                                                                                   Error-correction                           API
                                                                                                                                                                                              NPUKernelBench
                                        5. Question 1, 2, 3 …
                                         5.1 Question 1, 2, 3 …
                                                                                                                  What is the Ascend C
                                                                                                                  fusion operator
                                                                                                                  programming paradigm?
                                                                                                                                                           SFT                                                                                                 Debug
                                           5.1.1 Question 1, 2, 3 …                                               Answer                                                                                                                                       Kernel
           Extract                                                                         Documentation Ascend                                                            Qwen3-Init Collect Error Infor.
                                                   ……                                                              C‘s fusion kernel
                                                                                                         programming paradigm                                                                                                                                  Debug
                                                                                            -Based CoT isthata programming   model
                                                                                                               supports hybrid …


AscendC
Documents Analyze the call                                                DeepSeek-R1                             5.1.1. Question:

                                                                                              Kernel-level
                                                                                                                  Please implement an
                                                                                                                                                                                      LLM
              relationships in                                                                                    AscendC kernel header
                                                                                                                                                                                    after SFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Reinforcement Learning
              Kernel Code                 1. A         2. B                                      CoT              file for the inverse
                                                                                                                  hyperbolic cosine …
                                                                 …                                                Answer
                                                                                                                  /*!\n * \\file acosh.h\n *
                                                                                                                  \\brief\n */\n\n#ifndef                                                                 Compilation ✓                                              Pair 1
                                                                                                                  LIB_MATH_ACOSH_H                                                                                                     Positive
                                                                                                                  \n…                                                                                     Precision ✓
                                                                                            Code-Centric                                                                                      Evaluate
                                                                          Gemini 2.5 pro       CoT       5.1.1. Question:                                                                                 Compilation ✓
 AscendC                                         Prompt                                                           Please generate an                                      Kernel codes                    Precision 
                                                                                                                  efficient Ascend C code                                                      Results
 Kernels                                           Code                                                           implementation based
                                                                                                                  on the description …                                                                                                  Negative                     Pair 2
                                                  Desc.
                                                                                                                  Answer                                                                                  Compilation 
                                                                                              Project-level
                                                                                                                  The task I received was                                    Execute                      Precision 
                                                                                                                  to implement an ‘Kernel
                                                 Hardware                                         CoT             Name’ operator for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Data for RL
           API Description Hardware                                                                               Ascend processor …




                                                                                                                      General
                                                                                                                  Reasoning Chains                                                                       KernelGen-LM
 Stage 1: Data Construction                                                                             Ascend-CoT                                                       Stage 2: Domain-Adaptive Training for NPU Kernels


Figure 1: System overview of AscendKernelGen, depicting the data construction, LLM training, and hardware-
grounded evaluation pipeline for NPU kernel generation.


4      System Overview
We present AscendKernelGen (AKGen), a uniﬁed research framework for studying Large Language
Model (LLM)-based generation of low-level NPU kernels. Rather than serving as a standalone engineer-
ing system, AKGen is designed to support systematic investigation of kernel generation, veriﬁcation, and
evaluation under realistic hardware programming constraints.
   As illustrated in Fig. 1, AKGen integrates three tightly coupled components: a domain-speciﬁc rea-
soning dataset, a kernel generation model, and a structured evaluation benchmark. Together, they form a
closed generation–evaluation loop that enables controlled analysis of model capabilities and limitations.

Generation Component. The generation side of AKGen is built upon two elements.

     • Ascend Chain-of-Thought Dataset (Ascend-CoT). To address the scarcity of low-level NPU pro-
       gramming data, we construct Ascend-CoT, a curated dataset that captures the structured reasoning
       processes required for AscendC kernel development. The dataset is collected from real-world op-
       erator implementations and documentation, and emphasizes explicit pipeline construction, synchro-
       nization logic, and arithmetic reasoning patterns essential to kernel correctness.

     • KernelGen-LM. Using Ascend-CoT, we perform domain-adaptive post-training on a strong base
       LLM to obtain KernelGen-LM, a model specialized for low-level NPU kernel generation. The
       training objective explicitly targets the reasoning challenges of hardware-aware code generation, in-
       cluding data tiling, asynchronous pipeline orchestration, and correct use of low-level programming
       interfaces.

Evaluation Component. To systematically assess generated kernels, AKGen incorporates a dedicated
evaluation framework, NPUKernelBench, which bridges the gap between probabilistic model outputs
and deterministic hardware execution. NPUKernelBench organizes evaluation tasks into multiple difﬁ-
culty levels, ranging from simple element-wise operators to complex fused kernels, enabling ﬁne-grained
analysis of model behavior across diverse computational patterns and levels of programming complexity.
   Each generated kernel is evaluated through a staged validation pipeline that checks compilation suc-
cess, veriﬁes functional correctness against reference implementations, and measures execution perfor-
mance in terms of runtime. This multi-stage design isolates distinct failure modes and allows us to
quantify model behavior beyond surface-level code validity. While the current study emphasizes correct-
ness and performance metrics, the framework is readily extensible to additional analyses, such as static
code quality assessment and deeper performance characterization.
   Overall, AKGen provides a controlled framework for analyzing how LLMs acquire, apply, and gener-
alize low-level hardware programming knowledge, with Ascend NPU kernels serving as a representative
and challenging testbed.

5     Data Construction
To equip large language models (LLMs) with the reasoning capabilities required for low-level NPU
kernel generation, we construct a multi-source dataset that integrates domain-speciﬁc kernel knowledge
with general reasoning supervision. The design goal is not only to expose the model to the surface
form of AscendC kernels, but also to teach how expert developers reason about tiling strategies, memory
movement, API constraints, and correctness under hardware-speciﬁc execution models.
   As illustrated in Fig. 1, the dataset consists of three complementary components: documentation-based
reasoning data derived from AscendC manuals, kernel-centric chain-of-thought (CoT) data extracted
from real-world AscendC operators, and general reasoning chains to preserve generalization capability.
In total, the raw corpus contains 83,916 samples and is publicly available at Ascend-CoT.
   The raw dataset exhibits a long-tailed length distribution. Approximately 99.1% of samples have input
sequences shorter than 11.1k tokens, although the maximum input length reaches about 111k tokens. On
the output side, 85.1% of samples are within 21.9k tokens and an additional 6.3% fall between 21.9k
and 43.8k tokens, while the maximum output length reaches about 219k tokens. Before supervised
ﬁne-tuning, we apply length-aware preprocessing: samples exceeding 32k tokens are discarded, and
short samples are packed into ﬁxed-length training sequences using boundary-aware isolation to prevent
interference across concatenated examples. After preprocessing, the ﬁnal SFT corpus consists of 9,955
sequences of length 32k.

5.1    Documentation-Based CoT Data
The AscendC programming ecosystem contains rich but highly specialized knowledge spanning hard-
ware abstractions, programming models, and low-level API semantics. To inject this domain knowl-
edge into LLMs in a controllable manner, we transform ofﬁcial AscendC documentation into structured,
reasoning-oriented supervision rather than treating it as unstructured text.
   Speciﬁcally, we construct documentation-based supervision from three authoritative sources: the As-
cendC Operator Development Guide, which introduces hardware abstractions and the programming
model; the AscendC API Reference, which speciﬁes kernel, host, and debugging interfaces; and the
AscendC Best Practices, which describe performance optimization strategies and common pitfalls. To-
gether, these sources provide comprehensive coverage of both functional correctness and performance-
oriented considerations.
   Instead of unsupervised continual pre-training, we adopt a knowledge-instruct paradigm that converts
documentation content into question-answer pairs augmented with explicit reasoning traces. The result-
ing supervision emphasizes not only factual knowledge of APIs and concepts, but also the reasoning
process underlying correct API usage and constraint satisfaction. This design mitigates hallucination
caused by shallow pattern memorization and encourages systematic reasoning about hardware and pro-
gramming constraints.
   The constructed documentation-based dataset covers both conceptual reasoning over hardware abstrac-
tions and programming semantics, as well as API-centric reasoning that focuses on invocation patterns,
parameter constraints, and typical error scenarios. Each sample consists of a natural-language question,
a structured chain of reasoning, and a grounded answer. To ensure coverage and diversity, we enforce
ﬁne-grained chapter alignment and apply paraphrase augmentation during data generation.

5.2    Code-Centric CoT Data
Beyond documentation, correct kernel generation requires understanding how host-side tiling logic inter-
acts with device-side kernel execution in practice. To capture this interaction, we construct code-centric
chain-of-thought (CoT) data from real-world AscendC operator implementations.
   For standalone kernel ﬁles that can be compiled independently, we generate kernel-level CoT samples
that explicitly explain kernel structure, memory movement, and computation logic. Each sample pairs
a functional speciﬁcation with a complete kernel implementation and an explicit reasoning trace that
justiﬁes key design decisions, such as tiling assumptions, buffer usage, and pipeline organization.
   However, industrial-grade AscendC operators are typically implemented as composite projects that
support multiple shapes, data types, and execution branches. These implementations interleave host-
side tiling logic with device-side kernel invocation, making them unsuitable for direct supervision. To
address this challenge, we systematically decompose complex operators into logically pure host–kernel
pairs, where each pair corresponds to a single execution scenario with ﬁxed tiling and shape assumptions.
   For each decomposed host–kernel pair, we construct project-level CoT supervision that jointly reasons
about host-side tiling parameter computation, kernel-side pipeline structure and memory staging, and
the consistency between tiling metadata and kernel execution behavior. This joint reasoning explicitly
exposes the cross-boundary dependencies that are essential for correct kernel generation but are rarely
visible in isolated kernel code.
   To ensure correctness and executability, we retain only CoT samples that pass automated veriﬁcation
against reference tiling conﬁgurations. This ﬁltering step guarantees that the generated reasoning traces
are not only conceptually coherent but also aligned with valid host–kernel execution semantics.

5.3    General CoT Data
While domain-speciﬁc supervision is essential, training exclusively on kernel data risks degrading gen-
eral reasoning ability. To balance specialization and generality, we augment our dataset with high-quality
open-source chain-of-thought corpora covering mathematics, code reasoning, and scientiﬁc problem
solving (Liu et al., 2025; a-m team, 2025; Hugodonotexit, 2025; voidful, 2025).
   We apply a uniﬁed ﬁltering and normalization pipeline to ensure consistency across heterogeneous
sources, including language normalization, length-based ﬁltering, and perplexity-based quality control.
This mixture allows the model to retain general problem-solving skills while adapting to the highly
specialized reasoning demands of NPU kernel generation.

6     LLM Fine-Tuning for NPU Kernels
To enable reliable NPU kernel generation under strict programming constraints, we introduce KernelGen-
LM, a publicly available domain-adapted model designed to internalize AscendC-speciﬁc API semantics
and complex execution dependencies. Our approach employs a two-stage optimization strategy com-
bining Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and Reinforcement Learning (RL). The ﬁrst stage performs NPU-
aware supervised ﬁne-tuning (SFT) with curated and iteratively reﬁned data, enabling the model to ac-
quire foundational knowledge of AscendC syntax, APIs, and kernel structure. The second stage further
reﬁnes the model via reinforcement learning (RL) using execution-based correctness signals, encourag-
ing the generation of kernels that are not only compilable but also numerically correct.

6.1    Supervised Fine-Tuning with Error-Derived Supervision
While Ascend-aware SFT provides essential syntactic and structural knowledge, we observe that models
trained solely on static supervision still exhibit frequent failures in compilation stability and numeri-
cal correctness. To improve robustness prior to RL, we introduce an error-derived supervision strat-
egy that augments SFT with correction data generated from real execution failures, shown in Figure 2.
                                
                                                                                                    This strategy focuses on two complementary lev-
                                 
                                   




                Encoder
                                                Rank 1     Rank 1  Rank 1        API-level
                               
                                
                                               Summary     Summary Summary
                                                                                 error correction   els of errors: API-level misuse and kernel-level nu-
                                       
                          Clustering                   Priority ranking of                          merical inconsistency.
                                                   knowledge supplementation
                                                                                   Question:
                                       AscendC
                                                                                  CoT:
                                       Documents                                                    6.1.1 API-Level Error Correction
                                                                               API Debug Dataset
                                                                            At the API level, we construct an error-correction
                                                        Question:
                                                      CoT:
                                                             Kernel-level
                                                                            dataset from real AscendC compilation failures.
                                                        Answer:
                                                           error correction
                                                                            Given a compiler error log, the corresponding ker-
                                            Error Analysis
               AscendC
  Error Infor.  Code        Kernel Debug Dataset                            nel context, and relevant ofﬁcial documentation,
                                                                            the model is trained to identify the root cause of
Figure 2: Error-Derived Supervision for API- and                            the failure and produce a corrected implementa-
Kernel-Level Error Correction.
                                                                            tion. This supervision explicitly targets a com-
                                                                            mon failure mode of LLM-based kernel genera-
tion, where API invocations are syntactically plausible but violate semantic constraints or usage require-
ments.
   The overall construction process is summarized in Algorithm 1, which formalizes how compilation
errors are analyzed and transformed into supervised correction examples.

6.1.2       Kernel-Level Error Correction
Beyond compilation errors, a substantial fraction of generated kernels compile successfully but fail nu-
merical veriﬁcation. Such failures typically arise from subtle kernel-level reasoning issues, including
incorrect memory staging, accumulation order mismatches, or inconsistencies between host-side tiling
metadata and device-side execution logic.
   To address these errors within the supervised learning paradigm, we construct ground-truth-guided
reconstruction data. As formalized in Algorithm 2, kernels that pass compilation but fail numerical veri-
ﬁcation are ﬁrst identiﬁed and then paired with their corresponding ground-truth (GT) implementations,
which serve as deterministic supervision targets.
   Based on these pairings, we generate reconstruction-oriented chain-of-thought supervision that guides
the model to analyze the causes of numerical failures and synthesize corrected kernel implementations
from scratch. Unlike reinforcement learning, this process does not rely on scalar rewards or preference
comparisons, but instead enforces hard execution and numerical invariants through explicit example-level
correction.
   The resulting correction-derived samples are incorporated into the SFT corpus, enabling the model to
internalize numerically sensitive execution constraints and signiﬁcantly reducing the prevalence of silent
correctness failures. By eliminating a large portion of invalid candidates prior to reinforcement learning,
this error-derived SFT stage stabilizes subsequent policy optimization and improves sample efﬁciency
by narrowing the search space to reliably executable kernels.

6.2     Reinforcement Learning with Execution-Based Preferences
After error-derived supervised ﬁne-tuning, the model is able to generate kernels that largely satisfy com-
pilation constraints and basic numerical correctness. However, multiple candidate kernels may still exist
for a given speciﬁcation, differing in subtle execution behaviors such as memory access patterns, accu-
mulation order, or numerical stability. These distinctions are difﬁcult to encode through deterministic
supervision alone.
   To further reﬁne the model, we introduce a reinforcement learning (RL) stage driven by execution-
based preference signals. Unlike the preceding SFT stage, which focuses on correcting explicit failures,
the RL stage operates over kernels that already pass compilation and veriﬁcation, and aims to preferen-
tially reinforce higher-quality implementations.
   As shown in Fig. 1, for each kernel generation task, the model samples multiple candidate implemen-
tations, all of which are executable. These candidates are evaluated using an automatic execution-based
veriﬁer, which produces preference relations based on numerical accuracy and execution correctness.
Rather than constructing explicit correction targets, we form preference pairs: kernels that pass both
       Algorithm 1: Workﬂow for Constructing Ascend C API Correction SFT Data
        Input: Raw build logs;
        Source-code repository;
        OCR-extracted API documentation
        Output: SFT dataset with reasoning and corrected API usage
      1 Step 1: Extract Error Logs
      2 begin
      3    Traverse all build logs;
      4    foreach log ﬁle do
      5        if contains error messages then
      6            Extract the error block and save it as a clean error sample;

      7 Step 2: Error Distribution Analysis
      8 begin
      9    Classify error types using an LLM;
     10    Compute pass/fail statistics to identify challenging operators;
     11    Optionally ﬁlter easy cases using the statistics.
     12 Step 3: Contextual Diagnostic Report Generation
     13 begin
     14    foreach error sample do
     15        Retrieve related code snippet and variable deﬁnitions;
     16        Retrieve the corresponding API documentation;
     17        Merge log excerpt, code context, and API reference into a structured Markdown report;

     18 Step 4: SFT Data Synthesis
     19 begin
     20    foreach diagnostic report do
     21        Prompt an LLM to:
     22           analyze the misuse of the API;
     23           produce expert reasoning (<think>);
24             propose corrected usage and explanations;
     25        Save the result as an SFT training instance;
     26     Apply data balancing via subsampling or augmentation;
     27     Remove low-quality or incomplete samples.



     compilation and precision tests are treated as positive samples, while kernels that compile but fail preci-
     sion tests are treated as negative samples. These pairs deﬁne a relative preference signal indicating which
     generations are more desirable. The resulting preferences are then used to update the model, encouraging
     behaviors that consistently lead to more stable and accurate kernel implementations.
        This RL stage beneﬁts from the preceding error-derived SFT process. By eliminating a large fraction
     of invalid or numerically incorrect candidates beforehand, supervised correction signiﬁcantly narrows
     the policy search space and stabilizes preference learning. As a result, reinforcement learning focuses
     on ﬁne-grained optimization among valid kernels rather than recovering from catastrophic execution
     failures, leading to improved training efﬁciency and convergence stability.

     7     The Evaluation Sub-system: NPUKernelBench
     7.1    Benchmark Overview
     Figure 1 includes an overview of NPUKernelBench, an end-to-end evaluation framework for assessing
     the ability of large language models (LLMs) to generate correct and efﬁcient NPU kernels. The frame-
      Algorithm 2: Pipeline for constructing precision-corrected SFT data
       Input: Collection of test logs; repository of GT implementations
       Output: SFT dataset with reasoning and corrected kernels
     1 Step 1: Identify Precision-Failure Samples
     2 begin
     3    Traverse all log directories;
     4    foreach sample do
     5        if compilation succeeds and precision check fails then
     6            Extract its corresponding JSON metadata;

     7  Step 2: Generate Reconstruction-Based Training Data
      8 begin
      9    foreach extracted sample do
     10        Remove existing reasoning traces;
     11        Load erroneous kernel code;
     12        Retrieve corresponding GT kernel implementation;
     13        Build an LLM prompt combining:
14             problem description, erroneous code, and GT reference;
     15        Invoke LLM to:
     16            analyze root cause of precision failure;
     17            discard faulty implementation;
18             reconstruct a correct kernel with new <think> and <kernel_impl>;
     19        Store the generated result as an SFT instance;
     20    Perform resampling to satisfy the desired data quota per kernel;



     work spans the full evaluation lifecycle, from task speciﬁcation and code generation to compilation,
     hardware execution, and quantitative measurement.
        Given a structured kernel task and corresponding instructions, NPUKernelBench prompts the LLM
     to generate both a structured chain-of-thought (CoT) representation and executable host-side and kernel-
     side code. The generated code is then compiled and executed on the NPU hardware, where functional
     correctness and execution performance are automatically evaluated against reference implementations.
        By grounding evaluation in actual hardware behavior and enforcing full compilation and execution,
     NPUKernelBench enables objective, reproducible, and ﬁne-grained analysis of kernel generation quality.

     7.2   Kernel Task: Hierarchical and Categorical Design
     Evaluating LLMs for NPU kernel generation requires disentangling multiple sources of difﬁculty. Treat-
     ing all kernels as a homogeneous benchmark obscures key variations in computational structure and
     interface requirements, leading to incomplete assessments of model capability.
        NPUKernelBench addresses this challenge through a structured task design that decomposes kernel
     difﬁculty along two orthogonal dimensions: algorithmic complexity and interface complexity. Together,
     these dimensions form a hierarchical and categorical evaluation scheme that enables systematic analysis
     of both specialization and generalization behavior.

     Algorithmic Complexity. Kernel tasks are categorized into three levels according to their inherent
     computational structure (Table 2). Level 1 tasks consist of simple element-wise or arithmetic operations
     with linear data ﬂow. Level 2 tasks correspond to common neural network operators with structured com-
     putation and local dependencies. Level 3 tasks include operators with global dependencies, iterative com-
     putation, or dynamic control ﬂow, such as Gemm, TopK, and attention-related kernels. These tasks place
     increasing demands on parallel reasoning, memory hierarchy management, and control logic synthesis.
                                 Table 2: Categorization of kernel tasks in NPUKernelBench.

  Level    Static-shape                             Dynamic-shape                         Categories        Representative                 Tasks
                                                                                          Comparison        Add, Equal                     3
           Can linear data ﬂow be mapped to         Can element-wise logic remain         Condition         IsFinite, IsInf                3
 Level 1   ﬁxed-size loops with deterministic       correct under runtime-determined      Index             GatherV3, ScatterList          2
           memory access?                           tensor shapes?                        Math              AddCustom, Sqrt                26
                                                                                          TensorCreation    Arange, Eye                    3
                                                                                          Activation        Gelu, MulSigmoid               14
                                                                                          Foreach           ForeachAbs, ForeachSqrt        53
                                                                                          Linalg            Cos, Matmul                    2
                                                                                          Loss              CrossEntropyLoss, MseLoss      4
           Can structured computation exploit       Can kernels generalize correctly
 Level 2                                                                                  Mask              Tril, Triu                     3
           ﬁxed tiling and local data reuse?        across varying input sizes?
                                                                                          Norm              AddLayerNorm, RmsNorm          16
                                                                                          Optim             ApplyAdamWV2                   2
                                                                                          Reduce            MulSigmoidMulAddCustom         4
                                                                                          TensorMove        ExpandV2, ReverseSequence      5
           Can complex kernels with global          Can kernels support dynamic           GMM               Gemm, BasicMatmul              17
 Level 3   dependencies and non-trivial execution   shapes and control ﬂow in complex     Sort              TopKV3                         1
           logic be generated correctly?            execution scenarios?

                                                                                          Total             16                             158



                                                                                                           LLM

Interface Complexity. In addition to algorith-
                                                                                         Host Code               Device Code
mic difﬁculty, NPUKernelBench distinguishes
between static-shape and dynamic-shape kernel
tasks, shown in Figure 3. Static-shape tasks as-
                                                                                      Static Shape                   Dynamic Shape
sume compile-time known tensor dimensions and                                  (compile-time specialized)          (runtime adaptive)
                                                                               • Known dims/layout at              • Kernel adjusts
primarily evaluate specialization and optimization                             Compile-time                        tiling at runtime
capability. Dynamic-shape tasks require kernels                                • Aggressive optimization           • Requires robust
                                                                               • Optimize for maximum              host infershape &
to adapt to runtime-determined dimensions, test-                               throughput & on-chip use            runtime checks
ing the models ability to generate robust host-side
logic for shape inference, tiling computation, and
control ﬂow.                                                                   •   Easier for LLM to generate correct host & device code
                                                                               •   Explicit static/dynamic path

7.3   Standardized Generation Interface
To ensure fair and reproducible evaluation, NPUK-            Figure 3: Dual-Path Evaluation Design.
ernelBench deﬁnes a standardized generation inter-
face that constrains both the input prompt and the structure of the generated code. This design bridges
the gap between probabilistic LLM outputs and the deterministic requirements of the NPU compilation
and execution pipeline.
7.3.1 Prompt Formulation
As illustrated in Tables 3 and 11, the prompt provided to the LLM integrates three complementary compo-
nents: (1) task speciﬁcation via API descriptions, (2) structural scaffolding through host and kernel code
templates, and (3) role-based and formatting constraints. Together, these components provide sufﬁcient
semantic grounding and structural guidance for generating compilable Ascend C code.
   Task Speciﬁcation via API Description. The core functional requirements are encapsulated in
API_Desc.md. As shown in Table 11, this module translates the mathematical deﬁnition of the kernel into
machine-readable speciﬁcations, detailing input/output tensor attributes (shapes, data types, layouts) and
hardware constraints. For example,
                               ∑       for a matrix multiplication kernel, the prompt explicitly formalizes
the computation rule Cij = kp=1 Aip Bpj and speciﬁes precision modes, ensuring the model grounds
its generation in accurate arithmetic logic.
   Structural Scaffolding via Code Templates. To decouple algorithmic logic from boilerplate syn-
tax, NPUKernelBench injects pre-deﬁned code templates located in the tasks/.../question/ direc-
tory. The prompt includes a host template (deﬁning runtime registration and tiling interfaces) and a
kernel template (specifying device-side entry points, e.g., basic_matmul_kernel). Table 11 in the Ap-
pendix demonstrates a full template instance. This scaffolding forces the LLM to complete valid C++
structures rather than generating free-form text, signiﬁcantly improving the compilability of the output.
                                                              At the beginning of a prompt, there are usually
 Instructions                                                several general instructions, as illustrated in the
 • Role: "You are a professional Ascend kernel development   left Table 3. These instructions provide meta-
   engineer."
 • Target Language and API: "Please use Ascend C for de-     level guidance that deﬁnes the models behav-
   velopment."                                               ior, coding conventions, and output formatting.
 • Code Style Requirements: "Ensure high code readability    Speciﬁcally, they include explicit role prompts
   and include necessary comments."
                                                             (e.g., adopting the perspective of a professional
 • Output Format Requirements:                "Generate sep-
   arate Kernel and Host code:            the Kernel deﬁnes  Ascend kernel engineer), target language and en-
   <kernel_name>_kernel, and the Host declares Opera-        vironment speciﬁcations (e.g., using Ascend C),
   tor<OperatorName>Paras and implements the correspond-
   ing computation logic."
                                                             code style requirements (e.g., ensuring readabil-
 • Key Information Reminder: "Pay attention to handling      ity and including necessary comments), and out-
   the tensor data types, shapes, and layouts properly."     put format constraints (e.g., generating separate
                                                             Kernel and Host code with clearly deﬁned func-
    Table 3: General instructions used in the prompt.
                                                             tion and structure names). By providing sufﬁ-
ciently detailed instructions, the framework ensures that the LLM can follow consistent generation pat-
terns and produce code that aligns with the target development standards.
   Role-Based Constraints. The prompt begins with meta-instructions (Table 3) that conﬁgure the
model’s persona (e.g., "Professional Ascend Kernel Development Engineer") and impose strict format-
ting rules. These instructions explicitly forbid conversational ﬁller and mandate the separation of Host
and Kernel code blocks. By formalizing these constraints, the framework ensures that the raw output
from the LLM requires minimal post-processing before entering the compilation pipeline.
   Overall, the prompt formulation follows a deterministic sequence: ingesting the api_desc.md, append-
ing structural templates, and prepending constraint instructions. This creates a cohesive input context that
maximizes the model’s potential for generating compliant Ascend C code.

7.3.2   Output Code Speciﬁcation & Dual-Path Evaluation
NPUKernelBench enforces a strict output code speciﬁcation to enable fully automated compilation and
execution. Based on this speciﬁcation, the framework supports a dual-path evaluation mechanism that
assesses kernel generation capability under different system assumptions.
    Speciﬁcally, NPUKernelBench supports two complementary evaluation paths. In the Device-Only
Path, the framework provides a ﬁxed, pre-optimized host driver and evaluates the LLM solely on its
ability to generate correct and efﬁcient kernel-side code. This setting isolates the models fundamental
capability in implementing core computational logic on the NPU and is particularly suitable for L1/L2
operators with minimal control ﬂow. In contrast, the Host+Device Path evaluates the models ability
to generate complete, deployable operators. Under this setting, the LLM is required to produce both
host-side control logic and kernel-side implementation, reﬂecting realistic deployment scenarios where
runtime scheduling, shape inference, and dynamic memory management are essential.
    To support the Host+Device path, the output speciﬁcation requires the generated code to instantiate
three logically distinct but tightly coupled components within the provided templates (Table 11). First,
the host-side logic executes on the CPU and is responsible for orchestrating operator execution. This in-
cludes deﬁning parameter structures for hostdevice communication, performing shape inference to derive
output tensor dimensions at runtime, computing tiling parameters tailored to the target NPU architecture,
and conﬁguring kernel launch dimensions. Second, the kernel-side logic executes on the NPU AI Core
and implements the parallel computation itself. The generated kernel must conform to the Ascend C
programming model, correctly manage on-chip memory hierarchies, synchronize parallel execution, and
employ SIMD-style computation with techniques such as double buffering to overlap data movement
and computation. Finally, for operators with decoupled tiling logic, the framework expects an explicit
tiling structure deﬁnition that bridges host-side tiling computation and kernel-side execution.
    This dual-path design enables NPUKernelBench to comprehensively evaluate kernel generation capa-
bility across two representative industrial scenarios, shown in Figure 3. For static shape optimization,
the framework analyzes the generated kernel and tiling logic to assess whether the model can produce
highly optimized code for ﬁxed problem sizes, focusing on tiling strategy design, efﬁcient use of on-chip
memory, and computememory pipeline optimization. For dynamic shape robustness, enabled by the
Host+Device path, the framework evaluates the models ability to generalize to runtime-varying tensor
shapes. In this setting, correctness and performance depend on adaptive host-side logicsuch as dynami-
cally computed tiling parameters and loop boundsthereby testing the robustness of LLM-generated code
in realistic deployment environments.
   By standardizing both prompt formulation and output structure, NPUKernelBench isolates model capa-
bility from prompt engineering artifacts and ensures that evaluation outcomes reﬂect genuine differences
in kernel generation ability rather than formatting or interface inconsistencies.

7.4     Automated Evaluation Pipeline
NPUKernelBench is not merely a collection of test cases but a resilient, end-to-end automation frame-
work designed to bridge the gap between model generation and rigorous hardware veriﬁcation. As illus-
trated in Fig. 1, the pipeline seamlessly integrates four traditionally isolated stages: Code Generation,
Compilation, Correctness Veriﬁcation, and Performance Benchmarking.

7.4.1    End-to-End Architecture and Concurrency
To support large-scale and reproducible experiments (e.g., N ≥ 100 samples per task), the framework
follows a one-click execution philosophy. The entire evaluation process is initiated from a single en-
try point (run_multi_test.py) and conﬁgured through a uniﬁed deﬁnition ﬁle (base_config.yaml),
eliminating manual intervention and reducing inconsistencies across experimental runs.
   At scale, evaluating thousands of LLM-generated kernels across diverse NPU operators requires not
only parallelism but also strong fault isolation. To this end, NPUKernelBench adopts a high-concurrency
execution model based on Python multiprocessing, enabling parallel compilation and execution to
maximize host CPU and NPU utilization. Each kernel evaluation is executed within a strictly isolated
subprocess, ensuring that fatal errorssuch as segmentation faults, illegal memory access, or NPU runtime
exceptionsare contained locally and never propagate to disrupt the global pipeline.
   Given the stochastic nature of LLM outputs and the complexity of hardware execution, the pipeline fur-
ther incorporates native stability mechanisms to guarantee long-running robustness. Speciﬁcally, timeout
control is used to proactively terminate non-terminating kernels or hardware hangs, while an automatic
retry mechanism mitigates transient failures caused by network instability during API calls or tempo-
rary resource contention. In parallel, an active resource monitor enforces strict cleanup of host memory
and NPU VRAM after each subprocess terminates, preventing resource leakage and ensuring consistent
system behavior throughout extended batch evaluations.
   Beyond execution robustness, NPUKernelBench is designed as a dedicated benchmarking suite with
a structured, multi-level evaluation methodology tailored to custom NPU kernels. The framework eval-
uates generated operators along two primary dimensions: correctness and utilization, while adhering to
three guiding principles. First, Correctness First establishes functional validity as a prerequisite for any
performance assessment. Second, Performance-Oriented Evaluation emphasizes the effective utilization
of NPU hardware resources once correctness is ensured. Third, Multi-Level Difﬁculty introduces pro-
gressively more challenging tasks, enabling systematic assessment of optimization capability from basic
implementations to highly tuned kernels.
   These principles are realized through a fully automated evaluation pipeline comprising three tightly
integrated stages: compilation evaluation, correctness evaluation, and performance evaluation. Gener-
ated kernels are ﬁrst compiled to verify syntactic and build correctness, then executed on available NPU
devices to validate numerical accuracy, and ﬁnally benchmarked to collect performance metrics such
as execution latency and resource utilization. All stages are scheduled and executed in parallel when-
ever possible, with detailed logs and intermediate results recorded automatically. This design enables
large-scale, objective, and reproducible evaluation of kernel generation quality with minimal human in-
tervention.
7.4.2 Compilation Evaluation
In this stage, each generated kernel in Sec. 7.3 is ﬁrst veriﬁed to ensure that it conforms to the Ascend
C syntax and can be successfully compiled. To achieve this, the kernel is processed using the Ascend C
compiler, and the compilation status is recorded as either success or failure. Meanwhile, detailed logs are
stored in the log/ directory of each kernel sample, which allows developers to inspect the corresponding
log_file in order to identify and diagnose any compilation errors. To illustrate this process, Table 4
presents a sample compilation log, highlighting the successful build of the Sqrt kernel from Level 1.
Compilation Log

 [ INFO ] Task lvl1_categoryMath_Sqrt_sample0 compile result :
 ============== ============== ============== =========================== ============== ============== =========
 CompileResult :
 success = True
 log_file :
 runs / msopgen / lvl1 / Math / Sqrt / fixed_case_0 / sample0 / log / lvl1_categoryMath_Sqrt_sample0_compile . log
 ============== ============== ============== =========================== ============== ============== =========




                    Table 4: Compilation log of the Sqrt kernel using the Ascend C compiler.
7.4.3 Correctness Evaluation
The correctness evaluation stage assesses whether LLM-generated kernels produce numerically valid
results across diverse input conﬁgurations. For each kernel task, NPUKernelBench deﬁnes a set of test
cases that collectively cover relevant combinations of data types and tensor shapes. Each generated kernel
is automatically compiled and executed, and correctness is determined by element-wise comparison
against a pre-generated golden reference under predeﬁned numerical tolerances. These test outcomes
form the basis of a uniﬁed and hierarchical correctness scoring scheme.
   At the task level, correctness is quantiﬁed using a single Task-Level Score, deﬁned as the proportion
of test cases that pass successfully:
                                            Number of Passed Test Cases
                             Scoretask =                                × 100.                                  (1)
                                            Total Number of Test Cases
This abstraction intentionally treats all test cases within a task uniformly, providing a simple yet robust
measure of functional validity. A kernel achieves a full score when it passes all test cases, while partial
correctness is reﬂected by a proportionally reduced score. Kernels that fail all test cases receive a score
of zero, reinforcing the principle that correctness is a strict prerequisite for any further evaluation.
   The same task-level metric is applied consistently to both static-shape and dynamic-shape tasks (Ta-
ble 2). For static-shape tasks, all test cases correspond to a single ﬁxed input conﬁguration and jointly
verify correctness for that shape. In contrast, dynamic-shape tasks require a single kernel implementation
to handle multiple input shapes. As a result, multiple test cases are associated with each task, making
shape generality an inherent requirement for achieving a high task-level score. Failure on any required
shape directly reduces the score, naturally exposing limitations in robustness and adaptability.
   To summarize correctness performance at higher levels of abstraction, NPUKernelBench further de-
ﬁnes a Difﬁculty-Level Score. For each difﬁculty tier (L1, L2, and L3), this score is computed as the
arithmetic mean of all task-level scores within that tier:

                        ScoreLk = Averagei∈Lk tasks (Scoretaski ),         k ∈ {1, 2, 3}.                       (2)

This aggregation provides a stable estimate of correctness performance across tasks of similar complexity,
mitigating variance introduced by individual operators.
  Finally, an overall Total Correctness Score is computed as a weighted sum of the difﬁculty-level
scores:
               Scoref inal = (ScoreL1 × wL1 ) + (ScoreL2 × wL2 ) + (ScoreL3 × wL3 ),                  (3)
where higher weights are assigned to more challenging tasks to emphasize correctness on complex oper-
ators. By default, the framework uses wL1 = 0.2, wL2 = 0.3, and wL3 = 0.5. This design encourages
                                       Table 5: Scoring criteria for kernel evaluation.

 Scoring Item   Formula                                         Core Idea
                             Total Number of Test Cases × 100
                Scoretask = Number   of Passed Test Cases
 Task Score                                                     Measures correctness and serves as the foundation of the overall score.
 Level Score    Average(Score
                ∑              task j)                          Reﬂects the overall performance at a given difﬁculty level.
 Total Score      (Scorelevel × wlevel )                        Weighted sum incentivizing completion of higher-difﬁculty tasks.



models to prioritize correctness on difﬁcult tasks and serves as a gating signal for subsequent perfor-
mance evaluation. Scoring criteria for kernel evaluation is given in Table 5. Representative evaluation
criteria under both default and customized settings are also given in Table 10.

7.4.4    Performance Evaluation
The performance evaluation stage measures the execution efﬁciency of LLM-generated kernels on the
target NPU. The primary metric is kernel execution latency. To ensure stability and comparability, each
test case is executed with a ﬁxed number of warm-up iterations to mitigate cold-start effects, followed
by N consecutive runs. The average execution time across these runs is reported as the performance
measurement for the test case.
   Rather than reporting absolute latency alone, NPUKernelBench evaluates performance relative to a
hardware-aware reference upper bound, denoted as Tref . This reference time reﬂects the execution latency
achieved by highly optimized vendor-provided kernels for the same operator and tensor conﬁguration on
the target NPU. Tref does not represent a strict theoretical lower bound on execution time. Instead, it
serves as a strong and practically attainable performance reference, instantiated using mature and well-
engineered implementations from ofﬁcial NPU libraries (e.g., aclnn). While such vendor kernels may
not always achieve the absolute hardware limits, they provide a stable, reproducible, and hardware-aware
baseline that reﬂects current best engineering practices.
   By normalizing kernel latency against this reference, the evaluation emphasizes how effectively a
generated kernel approaches the performance level of optimized production kernels, rather than relying
on raw execution time alone. This relative formulation mitigates sensitivity to operator-speciﬁc scale,
tensor shapes, and hardware characteristics, enabling fair comparison across heterogeneous workloads.
As in the correctness evaluation, performance is measured only for kernels that pass functional validation,
ensuring that efﬁciency is assessed exclusively for correct implementations.

7.5     Optimization-Ready Fine-Grained Logging
The logging system of NPUKernelBench is designed not merely for passive record-keeping, but as a feed-
back mechanism that bridges evaluation and model optimization. By systematically capturing detailed
execution traces throughout the evaluation pipeline, the framework provides ﬁne-grained, actionable sig-
nals that support iterative improvement of LLM-based code generation models.
   At each stage of the pipeline, including code generation, compilation, and correctness veriﬁcation,
NPUKernelBench produces structured and stage-aware logs. Rather than reporting only coarse-grained
outcomes (e.g., a binary build failure), the framework records precise diagnostic information such as
compiler error codes, line numbers, and mismatch details. These logs are stored in a structured for-
mat (e.g., compile.log), ensuring that every failure mode is traceable, reproducible, and amenable to
downstream analysis.
   This design transforms evaluation outputs from sparse scalar signals into rich feedback representations.
Instead of reducing kernel quality to a single pass/fail outcome, the logging system exposes intermediate
failure modes and partial successes, enabling more informative supervision. Such feedback can directly
support manual prompt reﬁnement as well as automated optimization pipelines, including supervised
ﬁne-tuning (SFT), where structured error patterns can be leveraged as learning signals.
   Beyond supervised settings, the ﬁne-grained logging mechanism further enables reinforcement learn-
ing based optimization. By decomposing kernel generation into a sequence of veriﬁable milestones, such
as syntactic validity, successful compilation, numerical correctness, and performance attainment, the
framework can provide dense and interpretable reward signals. These signals can be naturally mapped to
       Table 6: Overview of models and conﬁgurations used for dataset construction and two-stage training.

        Stage                    Model / Method            Role                     Description
                                 DeepSeek-R1               Document & Single-ﬁleDocument-based data generation
                                                           CoT                  and single-ﬁle Chain-of-Thought
                                                                                construction
                                 Gemini 2.5 Pro            Project-level CoT    Reasoning over complete kernel
        Dataset Construction                                                    projects with multiple mutually ref-
                                                                                erenced source ﬁles
                                 DeepSeek-Reasoner         Data Flywheel Reﬁne- Iterative correction and reﬁnement
                                                           ment                 of generated reasoning chains
                                                                                within the data ﬂywheel
                                 Qwen3-32B                 Backbone Model           Backbone model for supervised
                                                                                    ﬁne-tuning
                                 Qwen3-1.7B / 4B / 8B / Scaling Study               Supervised ﬁne-tuning across differ-
                                 14B / 32B / Coder-30B-                             ent model scales and architectures
                                 A3B-Instruct
        Supervised Fine-tuning
                                 Training Conﬁguration  Full FT / LoRA              Learning rate 1.25 × 10−6 (Full FT)
                                                                                    vs. 1.25 × 10−5 (LoRA), cosine
                                                                                    decay, warm-up ratio 0.01, micro/-
                                                                                    global batch size 1/128, weight de-
                                                                                    cay 1 × 10−1 , gradient clipping 1.0.
                                 DPO                       Optimization Objective   Direct Preference Optimization
                                                                                    with β = 0.1
                                 Training Conﬁguration     Hyperparameters          Learning rate 1 × 10−6 , cosine de-
        Reinforcement Learning                                                      cay, warm-up ratio 0.1, global batch
                                                                                    size 64, 150 training iterations
                                 Preference Construction   Ablation Analysis        Analysis of different positive and
                                                                                    negative sample selection strategies



reward shaping strategies, allowing incremental credit assignment during training. As a result, NPUKer-
nelBench extends beyond a static benchmarking suite and can function as an evaluation-driven training
environment, supporting the development of self-improving kernel generation agents.

8     Experiments and Results
8.1    Experimental Setups
Models. As summarized in Table 6, we employ different large language models at distinct stages of the
pipeline according to their functional roles. For dataset construction and document-level reasoning, we
adopt DeepSeek-R1 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025), which is used to generate document-based data and single-ﬁle
Chain-of-Thought (Secs. 5.1 and 5.2). For project-level reasoning that requires understanding multi-ﬁle
kernel implementations with cross-ﬁle dependencies, we employ Gemini 2.5 Pro (Gemini-Team, 2025),
leveraging its stronger support for long-context and multi-ﬁle code reasoning (Sec. 5.2). Within the
supervised ﬁne-tuning (SFT) data, DeepSeek-Reasoner is further used to iteratively reﬁne and correct
reasoning traces (Secs. 6.1.1 and 6.1.2).
   Training. We adopt a two-stage training strategy consisting of supervised ﬁne-tuning followed by re-
inforcement learning. In the SFT stage, Qwen3-32B (Qwen-Team, 2025) serves as the primary backbone
model. To analyze the impact of model scale and architecture, we additionally conduct SFT on multiple
Qwen variants ranging from 1.7B to 32B parameters, as well as the code-specialized Qwen3-Coder-30B-
A3B-Instruct. All SFT experiments share a uniﬁed training conﬁguration, with both full ﬁne-tuning and
LoRA-based tuning evaluated under controlled settings (Table 6). In the second stage, reinforcement
learning is performed using Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) (Rafailov et al., 2023), with detailed
conﬁgurations and ablation studies reported in Sec. 6.2.

8.2    NPUKernelBench and Evaluation Metrics
All evaluations are conducted on NPUKernelBench (Sec. 7), which contains 158 representative kernels
spanning three levels of computational complexity. Each kernel is accompanied by a reference imple-
 Table 7: Evaluation results of kernel generation on NPUKernelBench across different sampling budgets (k). We
 report Compilation Rate (CR), Execution Rate (ER), and overall Speedup for generated kernels.

                                                                                Pass@1                                 Pass@10                         Pass@100
      Model                                            Level                                                                                                                  Speedup (×)
                                                                      CR (%)              ER (%)            CR (%)           ER (%)             CR (%)          ER (%)
                                                       Level 1           38.08              17.39               71.62          48.84                 75.00      66.67                 0.60
                                                       Level 2            0.0                0.0                 0.0            0.0                   0.0        0.0                  0.0
      Qwen3-32B
                                                       Level 3           1.83                0.0                15.43           0.0                  50.00       0.0                  0.0
                                                        Mean             25.59              11.59               49.46          32.56                 55.56      44.44                 0.60
                                                       Level 1           84.83              38.28               99.97          86.82                 100        94.44                 0.56
                                                       Level 2            60.5                 8                96.54          40.48                 100         75                   1.50
      Qwen3-32B + SFT
                                                       Level 3             17                0.17               63.75           1.67                 100        16.67                 0.00
                                                        Mean             71.89              27.31               95.18          67.06                 100        81.48                 0.75
                                                       Level 1           82.17              43.28               99.92          93.89                 100         100                  0.61
                                                       Level 2           62.75              14.25               95.49          64.28                 100        91.67                 1.86
      Qwen3-32B + SFT + RL
                                                       Level 3           14.67               0.17               61.12           1.67                 100        16.67                 0.00
                                                        Mean             70.35              32.04               94.62          77.06                 100        88.89                 0.87


                                                                 Qwen-32B                     Qwen-32B + SFT                       Qwen-32B + SFT + RL
             100
                                                                                                        72.33
Pass@1 (%)




                                                                                                       66.33
                                                                 58.33
                                                                 57.33
                                                      46.00




                                                                                            42.33




              50
                                                                                                                   38.33
                                                                               36.33




                                                                                                                  34.00




                                                                                                                                                                                        33.46
                                                                                                    33.33
                                       33.00

                                                  32.33




                                                                                         31.33




                                                                                                                                                                            30.00
                                                                                                                                28.67
                                      26.67




                                                                                                                                                                                      26.26
                            23.67




                                                                                                                               23.67
                                                                                       23.33
                                                                           22.67




                                                                                                                                                                         20.00
                                                                                                                                             15.33
                         14.00




                                               12.67


                                                              11.33




                                                                                                                           10.67



                                                                                                                                           10.33



                                                                                                                                                        8.00




                                                                                                                                                                                    7.92
                                                                                                                7.33
                                                                         4.33




                                                                                                                                                                3.67
                                                                                                                                                               1.00
                                                                                                                                                      0.67
                     0.00


                                    0.00




                                                                                                                                        0.00


                                                                                                                                                      0.00


                                                                                                                                                               0.00


                                                                                                                                                                       0.00
               0
                       al    ot                                             rt                         t                                                x                             Avg
                    Equ xMatD CosMa
                                    th                        Lerp       Rsq SinMa
                                                                                  th                Sqr hMath ignAdd                       u        d
                                                                                                                                        Gel luGra oftma                Triu
                       ple                                                                             Tan Unal                               e
                                                                                                                                            G Attn    S
                   Com                                                                                                                          ace
                                                                                                                                           Inpl
                                      Figure 4: Pass@1 results for representative kernels across training stages.



 mentation with standardized input and output speciﬁcations, enabling automated correctness veriﬁcation.
   For each task, we generate kernel code using the evaluated LLM and execute the compiled kernels on
 the target NPU platform. To assess robustness and scalability, each kernel is evaluated under multiple
 input sizes, allowing us to examine generalization behavior across varying workload intensities.
    We evaluate generated kernels along three complementary dimensions. First, the Compilation Rate
 measures whether a kernel can be successfully compiled, reﬂecting syntactic validity and API compli-
 ance; this metric is reported as pass@k, indicating the fraction of tasks for which at least one of the top-k
 generated candidates compiles successfully. Second, the Execution Rate assesses functional correctness
 by comparing kernel outputs against reference implementations under predeﬁned numerical tolerances
 (Sec. 7.4.3), and is likewise measured under the pass@k protocol. Finally, Performance Speedup evalu-
 ates runtime efﬁciency by normalizing kernel latency against expert-implemented baselines, with values
 greater than one indicating performance improvements.


 8.3           Main Results

 We compare kernel generation performance across different training stages, including the base models,
 supervised ﬁne-tuning, and reinforcement learning. Overall, performance improves consistently as train-
 ing progresses, with increasingly robust behavior observed on more challenging kernels. Quantitative
 results under different sampling budgets are summarized in Table 7 and analyzed in detail below.
8.3.1   Compilation and Execution
Table 7 summarizes kernel generation performance on NPUKernelBench across different sampling bud-
gets (k) and difﬁculty levels. A clear performance gap emerges as kernel complexity increases. For the
base Qwen3-32B model, Level 1 kernels achieve moderate compilation rates (CR) and execution suc-
cess rates (ER), whereas Level 2 kernels remain largely unsolved. For Level 3 kernels, although higher k
improves CR to some extent, ER remains consistently low, indicating that successful compilation alone
does not guarantee correct execution for complex kernels.
   Figure 4 presents the Pass@1 accuracy of Qwen-32B on a set of representative kernels across three
training stages: the base model, supervised ﬁne-tuning (SFT), and SFT followed by reinforcement learn-
ing (RL). The base model exhibits limited kernel synthesis capability, achieving an average Pass@1 of
only 7.92%, which reﬂects the difﬁculty of directly transferring general-purpose code generation ability
to low-level NPU kernel programming.
   Supervised ﬁne-tuning leads to a substantial improvement, increasing the average Pass@1 to 26.26%.
This gain indicates that SFT effectively aligns the model with the structural and syntactic requirements
of kernel generation, enabling it to produce compilable and partially correct implementations. In partic-
ular, SFT equips the model with essential building blocks such as API usage patterns, memory object
initialization, and canonical computation templates, which are prerequisites for valid kernel synthesis.
   Building upon this foundation, reinforcement learning further improves the average Pass@1 accuracy
to 33.46%. Unlike SFT, which primarily addresses coarse-grained correctness, RL provides execution-
based preference signals that encourage the model to distinguish between multiple valid but semantically
different implementations. The resulting improvements are especially pronounced for complex kernels,
where subtle errors in memory staging, accumulation order, or synchronization often determine execution
success.
   Overall, the progressive performance gains across training stages highlight the complementary roles
of SFT and RL. SFT establishes baseline kernel generation competence by enforcing hard compilation
and correctness constraints, while RL reﬁnes ﬁne-grained execution logic beyond syntactic validity. This
staged alignment strategy proves crucial for improving ﬁrst-attempt accuracy on challenging NPU ker-
nels, where even minor implementation errors can lead to execution failure.

8.3.2   Performance Speedup
Beyond functional correctness, Table 7 further evaluates the runtime efﬁciency of the generated kernels
on real Ascend NPU hardware. The base model exhibits limited optimization capability, achieving only
a 0.60× speedup on Level 1 tasks and failing entirely on Level 2 and Level 3 kernels. This behavior indi-
cates that general-purpose code generation lacks the ability to reason about hardware-speciﬁc parallelism
and memory hierarchies.
   In contrast, the proposed training pipeline yields substantial and systematic performance improve-
ments. After supervised ﬁne-tuning, the model not only recovers executable kernels but also learns
performance-oriented implementation strategies. In particular, SFT achieves a 1.50× speedup on Level 2
tasks, surpassing expert-written baselines. This result suggests that exposure to kernel-centric reasoning
patterns enables the model to internalize optimized tiling, memory reuse, and operator fusion strategies
that are difﬁcult to infer from generic code corpora alone.
   Reinforcement learning further reﬁnes these implementations by incorporating execution-based pref-
erence signals. On Level 2 kernels, RL improves the average speedup to 1.86×, while maintaining stable
performance on Level 1 tasks (0.61×). These gains primarily stem from ﬁne-grained adjustments to
memory access ordering, synchronization placement, and accumulation structure, rather than large-scale
structural changes introduced during SFT.
   Performance improvements are most pronounced on Level 2 tasks, where structured computation and
localized data dependencies provide sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for optimization while remaining amenable
to model-driven reasoning. In contrast, Level 1 kernels offer limited optimization space, and Level 3
kernels remain challenging due to global dependencies and complex control ﬂow. Overall, these results
indicate that the proposed SFT+RL pipeline enables the model to generate not only syntactically valid
                                        [Level 1] Compile Rate        [Level 2] Compile Rate      [Level 3] Compile Rate
                                        [Level 1] Exec. Rate          [Level 2] Exec. Rate        [Level 3] Exec. Rate

                 80
                 70
                 60
Percentage (%)




                 50
                 40
                 30
                 20
                 10
                  0
                          Qwen3-1.7B        Qwen3-4B             Qwen3-8B        Qwen3-14B        Qwen3-30B           Qwen3-32B
                  Figure 5: Scaling behavior of KernelGen-LM on NPU kernel generation tasks with increasing difﬁculty.

                                        Table 8: Full-tuning V.S. LoRA-tuning in QWen3-8B model.

                              Model            Level       Compile Rate (%)         Exec. Rate (%)     Speedup (×)
                                              Level 1              54.94                  20.10              0.48
                                              Level 2              14.58                  0.67               0.52
                              LoRA-tuning
                                              Level 3              3.83                   0.00                 -
                                               Mean                40.29                  13.55              0.48
                                              Level 1              70.67                  32.17              0.58
                                              Level 2              34.50                  3.08               2.77
                              Full-tuning
                                              Level 3              4.83                   0.00                 -
                                               Mean                55.32                  22.13              0.95


     kernel code, but also hardware-efﬁcient parallelization patterns, achieving expert-level and even expert-
     surpassing performance on a broad class of practical NPU operators.

     8.4              Ablation Analysis of Supervised Fine-tuning
     8.4.1 Model Scale Sensitivity
     As shown in Figure 5, increasing model scale leads to clear performance gains on Level 1 and Level 2
     tasks, indicating that larger models better capture standard kernel patterns. In contrast, Level 3 tasks
     remain highly challenging, with most models failing to achieve non-trivial execution rates. However,
     32B is the only scale that demonstrates measurable compilation success on Level 3, suggesting that
     sufﬁcient parameter scale is a prerequisite for reasoning over the complex control ﬂow and memory
     dependencies of complicated NPU kernels.
     8.4.2 Comparison of Fine-tuning Strategies
     Table 8 compares a comparative analysis between full ﬁne-tuning and LoRA-based ﬁne-tuning on
     Qwen3-8B. Full ﬁne-tuning consistently outperforms LoRA across all kernel complexity levels, with the
     mean compilation rate surging from 40.29% to 55.32% and the execution rate improving from 13.55%
     to 22.13%. The performance gap widens signiﬁcantly as kernel complexity increases. We attribute this
     divergence to the nature of NPU kernel generation, which is a knowledge-intensive task involving strict
     hardware intrinsics and memory constraints, rather than a simple style transfer. While LoRA is effective
     for format alignment, its low-rank decomposition limits the capacity to absorb such high-dimensional,
     domain-speciﬁc knowledge. In contrast, full ﬁne-tuning updates the entire parameter space, allowing
               80                                                      [Level 1] Compile Rate                          70       Compile L1
                                                                       [Level 1] Exec. Rate                                     Compile L2
                                                                                                                                Compile L3
                                                                                                                                                                              30
               70                                                      [Level 2] Compile Rate                          60
                                                                       [Level 2] Exec. Rate                                     Execute L1
                                                                                                                                                                              25




                                                                                                Compilation Rate (%)
                                                                                                                                Execute L2




                                                                                                                                                                                  Execution Rate (%)
               60                                                                                                      50
Accuracy (%)



               50                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                       40
               40                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                       30
               30                                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                       20
               20
                                                                                                                       10                                                     5
               10
                                                                                                                        0                                                     0
                0
                        Full          w/o Doc        w/o Kernel Code    w/o General                                         0                25       50        75      100
                      (a) Pass@1 rates with different data compositions.                               (b) Pass@1 rates with varying data ratios in Full setting.

    Figure 6: Ablation results on training data composition. (a) Pass@1 compilation and execution rates for Level 1
    and Level 2 kernels on Qwen3-8B under different data composition settings. Removing kernel code leads to the
    most severe performance degradation, particularly for Level 2 kernels. (b) Pass@1 compilation and execution
    rates under the full data setting with different data ratios. Increasing the training data consistently improves both
    compilation and execution performance.

                                                Table 9: DPO hyperparameter ablation in QWen3-8B.

           Negative Strategy                      LR     LR Decay      Batch Size               Training Steps                               Compile Rate (%)   Exec. Rate (%)
           (SFT)                                    -        -                 -                                         -                        60.97              5.18
                                                  1e-6    constant            64                                        150                       44.21              8.31
           Compile-pass but execution-fail
                                                  1e-6     cosine             64                                        150                       54.03              9.49
           Compile-fail                           1e-6    constant            64                                        150                       32.00              6.10



    for the deep injection of complex semantics and logical dependencies required for valid code generation.
    Consequently, in terms of runtime efﬁciency, full ﬁne-tuning achieves an average speedup of 0.95×,
    substantially surpassing the 0.48× of LoRA. These results suggest that for precision-critical tasks like
    hardware-aware code generation, the comprehensive parameter update of full ﬁne-tuning is indispens-
    able.
    8.4.3 Training Data Composition Analysis
    Fig. 6a shows that removing kernel code from the training data results in a dramatic drop in Pass@1
    performance, underscoring its critical role. Documentation and general semantic data provide auxiliary
    beneﬁts, particularly for higher-complexity kernels. Fig. 6b further demonstrates that increasing the
    training data size yields consistent improvements, highlighting the importance of data scale.

    8.5             Ablation Analysis of Reinforcement Learning
    Table 9 presents an ablation study on RL training with different negative strategies and optimization
    settings, where the negative strategies follow the preference data construction introduced in Sec. 6.2.
    Comparing the second row (compile-pass but execution-fail) with the fourth row (compile-fail) shows
    that using execution-failed yet compilation-passed samples as negatives leads to markedly better compi-
    lation and execution performance, indicating that such preference data provides more informative super-
    vision than compile-failed negatives. Under the same negative strategy, a further comparison between
    the second and third rows demonstrates that cosine learning rate decay consistently outperforms a con-
    stant schedule, especially in terms of execution success. These results jointly motivate our choice of
    execution-failed but compilation-passed samples as negative preferences and cosine decay as the default
    optimization setting for RL training.

    8.6             Error Analysis
    To better understand the limitations of LLM-based kernel generation, we conduct a systematic error
    analysis over approximately 4,000 failed kernel generations. Figure 7 summarizes the distribution of
    observed failure types.
   As shown in the ﬁgure, API Signature and Over-            Error Type Distribution (Merged Small Categories)
load Errors constitute the dominant failure mode, ac-                                                 API/Overload
                                                                                                      Type/Conversion
counting for 51.9% of all failed cases. These er-                                                     Scope/Lifetime
                                                                                                      Memory/Object
rors occur when generated function invocations fail to                                                Other Small
match any valid AscendC API signature or overload.                                     3.7%8.1%
The second most common category is Data Type
                                                                                                16.4%
and Conversion Errors (19.8%), followed by Variable
                                                                         51.9%
Scope and Lifetime Errors (16.4%) and Memory and
Object Usage Errors (8.1%). Lower-frequency fail-
                                                                                             19.8%
uresincluding syntax and structural violations as well
as macro and preprocessing errorstogether account
for only 3.7% of all cases.
   This distribution indicates that current models are       Figure 7: Distribution of kernel generation errors.
generally capable of producing syntactically well-
formed kernel code, as purely syntactic and structural
errors are relatively rare. However, the majority of failures arise from semantically constrained aspects of
low-level programming. In particular, errors are dominated by cases that require precise reasoning about
API contracts, hardware-speciﬁc data types, and variable visibility across different kernel components.
   To further investigate the underlying causes of these failures, we analyze the major error categories in
detail. Below, we describe each error category along with its typical causes and manifestations.
   • API Signature & Overload Errors: These errors arise when a generated function call does not
     match any valid API signature or overload deﬁned in the programming interface. Common causes
     include incorrect argument ordering, mismatched parameter types, missing required parameters, or
     confusion between similarly named APIs with subtle semantic differences. This category reﬂects
     the models difﬁculty in aligning high-level task intent with rigid, hardware-speciﬁc API contracts.
   • Data Type & Conversion Errors: This category includes the use of invalid or non-existent data
     types (e.g., bool_t), as well as illegal or unsafe type conversions between incompatible types (e.g.,
     mixing float and double constants). Such errors often stem from implicit assumptions carried
     over from high-level programming languages, which do not hold in low-level kernel development
     where type rules are strict and hardware-dependent.
   • Variable Scope & Lifetime Errors: These errors occur when variables are used outside their valid
     scope or before being properly deﬁned. Typical examples include references to undeclared symbols
     (e.g., M_PI) or misuse of variables that are not visible within the current compilation unit or kernel
     context. This category highlights challenges in consistently reasoning about variable visibility and
     lifetime across host-side logic, kernel code, and auxiliary conﬁguration structures.
   • Memory & Object Usage Errors: Errors in this category are related to incorrect usage of core
     objects such as TPipe, LocalTensor, and GlobalTensor. They include invalid member function
     invocations and incorrect memory address computations. While less frequent, such errors can lead
     to severe runtime failures or undeﬁned behavior.
   • Syntax & Structure Errors: These errors stem from violations of C++ syntax or incomplete kernel
     class deﬁnitions. Examples include missing required methods (e.g., improperly deﬁned or absent
     Init functions), mismatched braces, or malformed template instantiations. These errors are typi-
     cally associated with incomplete code generation rather than deeper semantic misunderstandings.
   • Macro & Preprocessing Errors: This category includes errors caused by incorrect macro deﬁni-
     tions or improper usage of tiling-related preprocessing directives. These issues often arise from
     incorrect assumptions about compile-time constants or conditional compilation logic embedded in
     kernel templates.
  Representative examples for each error category are provided in Table 16 in the Appendix.
9   Conclusion
In this work, we presented Ascend KernelGen, a uniﬁed framework designed to automate the generation
of high-performance kernels for NPU architectures. We identiﬁed that the primary barrier for LLMs in
this domain is not merely syntax familiarity, but the lack of structured reasoning capabilities regarding
hardware constraints, memory hierarchy management, and asynchronous pipeline synchronization.
   To overcome this, we constructed Ascend-CoT, a domain-speciﬁc dataset that explicitly models the
reasoning process of expert developers, and developed NPUKernelBench, a rigorous evaluation suite
that goes beyond static code analysis to verify compilation, numerical correctness, and runtime perfor-
mance on actual hardware. Our extensive experiments show that while general-purpose models struggle
with the speciﬁcity of AscendC, our domain-adaptive training strategycombining reasoning-oriented su-
pervised ﬁne-tuning with execution-guided reinforcement learningyields substantial improvements. We
demonstrated that our model can successfully generate complex operators that were previously out of
reach, achieving competitive performance metrics.
   While this study focuses on kernel-level correctness and basic optimization, several promising direc-
tions remain. First, we plan to extend our framework to better support Level-3 kernels, which remain
challenging for current models. Second, we aim to integrate performance-aware reward models into the
reinforcement learning stage to prioritize not just functional correctness, but also latency minimization
and resource utilization close to the hardware rooﬂine. Finally, we intend to explore the generalizability
of our methodology to other emerging accelerator platforms, fostering a more inclusive ecosystem for
AI-driven hardware software co-design.
Evaluation Criteria
 Default evaluation criteria
 def check_precision ( outputs , outputs_new , max_abs_error , max_rel_error ) :
     # outputs : list of tensors from reference model
     # outputs_new : list of tensors from LLM generated kernel
     outputs = [ outputs ] if not isinstance ( outputs , list ) else outputs
     outputs_new = [ outputs_new ] if not isinstance ( outputs_new , list ) else outputs_new

     all_abs_diff , all_rel_diff = [] , []
     is_accurate = True

     # Process each output pair
     for out , out_new in zip ( outputs , outputs_new ) :
       abs_diff = torch . abs ( out - out_new )
       rel_diff = abs_diff / ( torch . abs ( out ) + 1e -7) # Add epsilon to avoid division by zero
       all_abs_diff . append ( abs_diff . view ( -1) )
       all_rel_diff . append ( rel_diff . view ( -1) )

       # Check if any element exceeds both absolute and relative error thresholds
       if (( abs_diff > max_abs_error ) & ( rel_diff > max_rel_error ) ) . any () :
           is_accurate = False

     # Combine all differences
     all_abs_diff = torch . cat ( all_abs_diff )
     all_rel_diff = torch . cat ( all_rel_diff )

     return (1 if is_accurate else 0) , all_abs_diff , all_rel_diff


 Custom evaluation criteria
 def custom_check_precision ( param , outputs , outputs_new ) :
     dtype_str = param . get (` dtype `, ` float16 `)
     dtype = getattr ( torch , dtype_str )
     if dtype == torch . float32 :
          return check_precision ( outputs , outputs_new , max_abs_error =0.00001 , max_rel_error =0.00001)
     else :
          return check_precision ( outputs , outputs_new , max_abs_error =0.001 , max_rel_error =0.001)


Table 10: Correctness evaluation criteria for LLM-generated kernels, covering both default and custom methods.
 Prompts for Generating Kernel Code in NPUKernelBench
  Instructions
  Please see Table 3.

  API_Desc.md

  # aclnnBasicMatmul
  ## Function Description
  ### Kernel Function
  This Ascend C kernel performs the multiplication of two 2D matrices, A and B. It is a core component in deep learning models,
   such as linear layers and attention mechanisms. It takes two 2D tensors that satisfy the matrix multiplication rule and
  outputs their product.
  ### Computational Formula
  Assume the input tensors are $A$ ($m \times k$) and $B$ ($k \times n$). The output tensor $C$ ($m \times n$) is computed as:
  $$C_{ij} = \sum_{p=1}^{k} A_{ip} B_{pj}$$, where $i$ ranges from $1$ to $m$, and $j$ ranges from $1$ to $n$. $C_{ij}$ denotes
   the element in the $i$-th row and $j$-th column of $C$.
  ### Computation Process and Type Conversion
  To maintain high numerical precision during large-scale accumulation and effectively prevent data overflow, this kernel
  adopts a high-precision accumulation strategy during computation. The process is as follows:
  1. The kernel receives two input tensors ‘a‘ and ‘b‘, both of data type ‘float16‘.
  2. During the multiply-accumulate computation, the internal accumulator uses the ‘float32‘ data type. In other words, the
  product results of ‘float16‘ inputs are first converted to ‘float32‘ before accumulation.
  3. After all accumulation operations are completed, a result tensor of type ‘float32‘ is obtained.
  4. Finally, the ‘float32‘ result tensor is converted back to ‘float16‘ as the final output.
  ## Interface Definition
  ### Kernel Prototype Definition Interface
  #### Input
  - a: Device-side aclTensor corresponding to A in the formula; supports float16, 2D, and ND format.
  - b: Device-side aclTensor corresponding to B in the formula; supports float16, 2D, and ND format.
  #### Output
  - c: Device-side aclTensor corresponding to C in the formula; supports float16, 2D, and ND format.
  #### Attr
  - None
  ## Constraints and Limitations
  * The input tensors ‘a‘ and ‘b‘ currently support only the ‘float16‘ data type.
  * The input tensors ‘a‘ and ‘b‘ must both be two-dimensional matrices.
  * The second dimension (number of columns) of ‘a‘ must be equal to the first dimension (number of rows) of ‘b‘.
  * The input tensors support only the ND data format.



  Host template
  # include " register / op_def_registry .h "
  # include " tiling / platform / platform_ascendc .h"
  namespace optiling {
  static ge :: graphStatus TilingFunc ( gert :: TilingContext * context )
  {
       context - > SetBlockDim ( platform_ascendc :: PlatformAscendCManager :: GetInstance () -> GetCoreNumAic () ) ;
       return ge :: GRAPH_SUCCESS ;
  }
  } // namespace optiling
  namespace ops {
  class BasicMatmul : public OpDef {
  public :
       explicit BasicMatmul ( const char * name ) : OpDef ( name )
  {
            this - > Input ( " a " )
                 . ParamType ( REQUIRED )
                 . DataType ({ ge :: DT_FLOAT16 })
                 . Format ({ ge :: FORMAT_ND }) ;
            this - > Input ( " b " )
                 . ParamType ( REQUIRED )
                 . DataType ({ ge :: DT_FLOAT16 })
                 . Format ({ ge :: FORMAT_ND }) ;
            this - > Output ( " c " )
                 . ParamType ( REQUIRED )
                 . DataType ({ ge :: DT_FLOAT16 })
                 . Format ({ ge :: FORMAT_ND }) ;
            this - > AICore ()
                 . SetTiling ( optiling :: TilingFunc )
                 . AddConfig ( " ascend910_93 " )
                 . AddConfig ( " ascend910b " ) ;
       }
  };
  OP_ADD ( BasicMatmul ) ;
  } // namespace ops


  Kernel template
  # include < kernel_operator .h >
  using namespace AscendC ;
  extern "C" __global__ __aicore__ void basic_matmul ( GM_ADDR a , GM_ADDR b , GM_ADDR c , GM_ADDR workspace ,
        GM_ADDR tiling )
  {
  }


Table 11: An example of the structured prompt used for Ascend kernel generation, consisting of three components:
API description, host/kernel-side template.
Prompt for generating project-level CoT
Instructions
You are an AscendC programming expert for the Huawei Ascend processor. Based on the given problem, code content, and
hardware speciﬁcation documentation, please generate a detailed chain-of-thought process and a summary of all member
variable values within the structures, as well as the value of the tilingKey. The chain of thought should demonstrate the
complete reasoning path from the problem to the ﬁnal code outcome, including key thinking steps, logical analysis, and
derivation.
Requirements:
Start reasoning from the problem itself, with reasoning details aligned with the implementation logic;
Present a clear solution path;
Include necessary analytical steps and intermediate reasoning;
Guide the reasoning process step by step toward the ﬁnal answer;
Demonstrate your expertise and reasoning process as an AscendC specialist;
......
For the chain of thought, the following requirements apply:
1. Begin from the problem and reason in the ﬁrst-person I.
2. Present yourself as a developer actively solving the problem, not as an AI that already knows the answer.
3. Show the natural thought process from problem analysis to solution design and then to implementation. Code snippets
may only reproduce content from the given material and must not be invented. Avoid statements such as based on the
example.
4. Include key decision points, technical considerations, and derivations.
......
11. Except for code and proper nouns, do not use English inside the internal reasoning process (chain of thought itself).
12. Tiling parameters mainly include the following components:
- BlockDim: the value set by the GetBlockDim() function
- TilingKey: the value set by the SetTilingKey() function (optional)
- Tiling structure member variables: typically deﬁned between BEGIN_TILING_DATA_DEF() and END_TILING_DATA_DEF()
in *_tiling.h
......
The chain of thought should be output in the following format:
<think>chain-of-thought</think .

Test cases
## Function Description
### Operator Function
Returns a new tensor with the same shape as the input, where each element is the absolute value of the corresponding input
element.
### Formula
$$
x = [x_0, x_1, \ldots, x_{n-1}] \\
y = [y_0, y_1, \ldots, y_{n-1}]
$$
$$
y_i = |x_i|,\quad i = 0, 1, \ldots, n-1
$$
## API Definition
### Python API
This operator is implemented in C++ and exposed to Python via PyBind11 as ‘kernel_gen_ops.abs_math()‘:
‘‘‘python
def abs_math(tensor):
    """
    Custom AbsMath operator.

    Args:
        tensor (Tensor): Device-side aclTensor (input x).
            Supported dtypes: bfloat16, float16, float32, int32, int64, DT_COMPLEX64.
            Supported format: ND.

    Returns:
        Tensor: Device-side aclTensor (output y).
            Same dtype/format as input. Output shape matches x.
    """
‘‘‘
## Usage Example
‘‘‘python
import torch
import kernel_gen_ops

tensor = torch.tensor([-1.0, 2.0, -3.0], dtype=torch.float)
result = kernel_gen_ops.abs_math(tensor)
‘‘‘
## Constraints
- ND format only.
    Kernel-level CoT
1    {
2        " qus " : " Please implement a utility function for computing the temporary buffer
            size required by the SwiGLU operator . The function should be able to determine
            the maximum and minimum buffer sizes based on the input shape and data type , as
              well as retrieve the buffers factor size . Some dependency code has already
            been provided ; please complete the implementation based on the following
            summarized dependencies : [========== From swiglu \ _tiling .h ==================...
            code ...================== From / api \ _check / host \ _apicheck .h =======... code
            ...==================== From impl / host \ _log .h ======================... code ...]
            ",
3        " cot " : " To solve this problem , I need to implement a utility function that
            computes the temporary buffer size required by the SwiGLU operator . The
            function must determine the maximum and minimum buffer sizes based on the input
              shape and data type , as well as return the buffer - size factor . According to
            the provided dependency code , basic interfaces and parameter - validation
            utilities already exist , so my task is to implement the core logic . Since
            SwiGLU requires intermediate results , its temporary - space needs vary across
            data types , and the Ascend processor also imposes alignment constraints ,
            motivating the use of a minimum repeat - unit size . My design sets different
            multipliers for half - precision and single - precision data , defines a 256 - byte
            minimum repeat unit , and validates both shape and datatype . The maximum buffer
            size is computed as the multiplier times the larger of the input - tensor byte
            size and the repeat - unit size , while the minimum buffer size uses only the
            repeat - unit size . The factor - size interface simply returns the chosen
            multiplier , enabling callers to compute the exact temporary - space requirement
            dynamically ." ,
4        " ans " : " /* !\ n * \\ file swiglu_tiling . cpp \n * \\ brief \n */\ n# include \" lib /
            activation / swiglu_tiling .h\"\n\n# include < cstdint >\ n# include <set >\ n\n# include
            \" graph / tensor .h\"\n# include \" impl / host_log .h\"\n# include \" impl / api_check /
            host_apicheck .h\"\n\ nnamespace AscendC {\ nnamespace {\ nconstexpr uint32_t
            SWIGLU_HALF_TMP_SIZE = 6;\ nconstexpr uint32_t SWIGLU_FLOAT_TMP_SIZE = 0;\
            nconstexpr uint32_t SWIGLU_ONE_REPEAT_BYTE_SIZE = 256;\ nstatic constexpr
            uint32_t SWI_GELU_HALF_SIEZ = 2;\ nstatic constexpr uint32_t SWI_GELU_FLOAT_SIEZ
              = 4;\ nstatic const std :: set < uint32_t > SUPPORT_TYPESIZE = { SWI_GELU_HALF_SIEZ ,
              SWI_GELU_FLOAT_SIEZ };\ nstatic constexpr const char SWI_GELU_GET_MAX_MIN [] = \
            " GetSwiGLUMaxMinTmpSize \" ;\ nstatic constexpr const char SWI_GELU_GET_TMP_BUFFER
            [] = \ " GetSwiGLUTmpBufferFactorSize \" ;\ n\ ninline uint32_t GetSwiGLUMaxTmpSize (
            const uint32_t inputSize , const uint32_t typeSize )\n {\ n           const uint32_t
            calcPro = ( typeSize == sizeof ( float )) ? SWIGLU_FLOAT_TMP_SIZE :
            SWIGLU_HALF_TMP_SIZE ;\ n         return calcPro * std :: max ( inputSize * typeSize ,
            SWIGLU_ONE_REPEAT_BYTE_SIZE ) ;\ n }\ n \ ninline uint32_t GetSwiGLUMinTmpSize ( const
            uint32_t typeSize )\n {\ n        const uint32_t calcPro = ( typeSize == sizeof ( float ) )
              ? SWIGLU_FLOAT_TMP_SIZE : SWIGLU_HALF_TMP_SIZE ;\ n            return calcPro *
            SWIGLU_ONE_REPEAT_BYTE_SIZE ;\ n }\ n} // namespace \n\ nvoid GetSwiGLUMaxMinTmpSize (
            const ge :: Shape & srcShape , const uint32_t typeSize , uint32_t & maxValue ,\ n
            uint32_t & minValue , const bool isReuseSource )\n {\ n          HighLevelApiCheck ::
            SrcShapeSizeVerifyingParameters < SWI_GELU_GET_MAX_MIN >( srcShape . GetShapeSize () ,
            typeSize ) ;\ n     HighLevelApiCheck :: TypeSizeVerifyingParameters <
            SWI_GELU_GET_MAX_MIN >( typeSize , SUPPORT_TYPESIZE ) ;\ n         HighLevelApiCheck ::
            IsReuseSourceVerifyingParameters < SWI_GELU_GET_MAX_MIN >( isReuseSource ) ;\ n
            const uint32_t inputSize = srcShape . GetShapeSize () ;\ n          ASCENDC_HOST_ASSERT (
            inputSize > 0, return , \" Input Shape size must be greater than 0.\ ") ;\ n\n
            minValue = GetSwiGLUMinTmpSize ( typeSize ) ;\ n        maxValue = GetSwiGLUMaxTmpSize (
            inputSize , typeSize ) ;\ n }\ n\ nvoid GetSwiGLUTmpBufferFactorSize ( const uint32_t
            typeSize , uint32_t & maxLiveNodeCount , uint32_t & extraBuffer )\n {\ n
            HighLevelApiCheck :: TypeSizeVerifyingParameters < SWI_GELU_GET_TMP_BUFFER >(
            typeSize , SUPPORT_TYPESIZE ) ;\ n       extraBuffer = 0;\ n       maxLiveNodeCount = (
            typeSize == sizeof ( float )) ? SWIGLU_FLOAT_TMP_SIZE : SWIGLU_HALF_TMP_SIZE ;\ n }\ n
            } // namespace AscendC "
5    }


    Table 12: A SwiGLU kernel CoT example for Ascend kernel SFT, consisting of three parts: question, CoT, and
    answer.
  NPUs hardware conﬁguration
  The introductory document for AscendC development includes the following sections:
  1. Overview of the Decoupled Architecture and Hardware Structure
  1.1 Features of the Decoupled Architecture
  The decoupled architecture of Ascend AI processors (e.g., Atlas A2/A3 series) splits the AI Core into two independent units:
  AI Cube (AIC) and AI Vector (AIV).
  AIC mainly handles matrix operations (Cube), while AIV is responsible for vector and scalar operations (Vector/Scalar).
  The two types of cores have independent scalar units, instruction streams, and local storage. Data is exchanged through
  Global Memory (GM).
  ......
  The hardware model and specifications we are using are: [Platform Info configuration begin]
  #*************************************************************************************#
  [
  [version]
  SoC_version=Ascend910_9392
  Short_SoC_version=Ascend910_93   [PS: Ascend910_93 is the NPU's name.]
  AIC_version=AIC-C-220
  CCEC_AIC_version=dav-c220-cube
  CCEC_AIV_version=dav-c220-vec
  CCEC_CUBE_version=dav-c220-cube
  CCEC_VECTOR_version=dav-c220-vec
  ......
  ]


  Kernel source code
  Please, using the input shapes and other relevant information and taking the actual code implementation into account, outline
    the detailed design logic for operator tiling and kernel pipelining, and compute the operators tiling parameter values
  during the intermediate steps. Below is the code, consisting of multiple files separated by
  ============================================================================================.
  You may refer to these files to support your reasoning, but they are only supplementary. Your answer should be based on your
  own thinking and judgment as an AscendC expert, not a verbatim restatement of the code:
  ============================================================================================
  ‘‘‘cpp
  // op_host/abs_tiling.h
  /**
    * @file abs_tiling.h
    */
  #ifndef ABS_TILING_H
  #define ABS_TILING_H
  #include "register/tilingdata_base.h"
  namespace optiling {
       ......
  }
  #endif // ADD_CUSTOM_TILING_H
  ‘‘‘
  ==========================================================================================
  ‘‘‘cpp
  // op_host/abs_math.cpp
  /**
    * @file abs.cpp
    */
  #include "abs_tiling.h"
  #include "register/op_def_registry.h"
  #include "tiling/platform/platform_ascendc.h"
  namespace optiling {
       ......
  }
  namespace ops {
  class AbsMath : public OpDef {
       ......
  };OP_ADD(AbsMath);
  }
  ‘‘‘
  ==========================================================================================
  ‘‘‘cpp
  // op_kernel/abs_common.h
  /**
    * @file abs_common.h
    */
  #ifndef ABS_COMMON_H
  #define ABS_COMMON_H
  #include "kernel_operator.h"
  constexpr int32_t BUFFER_NUM = 2; // tensor num for each queue
  #endif // ABS_COMMON_H
       ......
  ‘‘‘
  ==========================================================================================



Table 13: An example of an AbsMath kernel prompt for Ascend kernel generation, comprising four components:
instruction text, test cases, NPU hardware conﬁguration, and kernel source code.
    Project-level CoT

1   {
2       " input " : " Prompt in Table 9. " ,
3       " output " : " < think >\ n My task is to implement an ` AbsMath ` operator for the Ascend
             processor . The operator ' s function is simple : take the absolute value of each
            element of the input tensor , i .e ., `y = | x | `.\ n\n First , let 's analyze its
            characteristics . It is a typical element - wise operation with simple logic , no
            complex dependencies , and no matrix multiplication . Therefore , it is vector -
            intensive , meaning on the Ascend processor , I should mainly use the AI Vector (
            AIV ) units rather than AI Cube ( AIC ) units .\ n\ nThe hardware model is `
            Ascend910_93 ` with ` vector_core_cnt =48 ` Vector cores . Each core has a Unified
            Buffer ( UB ) of 196 ,352 bytes . UB size limits the amount of data that can be
            processed at once . The input is ` shape =[1] ` , ` dtype = float16 `. Though very small
            , the implementation ( especially tiling ) must handle arbitrary sizes . Based on
            this , the implementation is divided into Host - side Tiling logic and Device - side
             Kernel .\ n\n ** I. Host - side Tiling Strategy Design **\ n\ nThe core goal of Tiling
            is to decompose the entire computation task into small tiles so that it can be
            processed in parallel on multiple cores and ensure that each data block can be
            loaded into UB . \n\ n1 . ** Data Type and Computation Selection **:\ n The ` AbsMath `
             operator needs to support multiple data types , each with different methods for
             calculating its absolute value . To differentiate these cases on the kernel
            side , I need to design a ` tilingKey `. The host side sets this ` tilingKey ` based
             on the input data type , and the kernel side uses it to call the corresponding
            processing logic . * For ` float16 `, ` bfloat16 `, and ` float32 ` types , the `Abs `
            instruction can be used directly , and I have assigned a ` tilingKey ` for this . *
             For `int32 `, the absolute value needs to be efficiently obtained using the
            bitwise operation `(x ^ (x >> 31) ) - (x >> 31) `, which corresponds to a
            separate ` tilingKey `. * For `int64 `, the bitwise operation `(x ^ (x >> 63) ) - (
            x >> 63) ` is also used , and a ` tilingKey ` is also assigned ...
4   }



            Table 14: A project-level CoT example for Ascend kernel SFT, comprising a question and its CoT.

    Prompts to optimize CoT
    "System Prompt": You are a top-tier AI chain-of-thought optimization expert. Your primary task is to review and restructure
    the content inside the <think> tags in Markdown documents. You must precisely preserve the core reasoning path from
    problem analysis to code implementation, while removing all redundant summarizing text, parameter recap lists, and any
    non-essential reasoning. Ultimately, you must output only the optimized, complete Markdown document.
    "User Prompt":
    Optimization Goals
    Reconstruct the content inside the <think> tags to retain the core reasoning path from problem analysis to code implementa-
    tion, while deleting all non-essential and redundant information.
    Content Editing Rules
    1. Remove redundant summaries: You must delete all retrospective or summarizing text about Tiling, such as:

         • “Tiling parameter summary”
         • “Organize all tiling parameters”
         • Any similar parameter recap or retrospective content.

    2. Remove self-negation: You must delete all expressions of doubt, alternative-scheme discussion, or self-correction. The
    chain of thought should present a clear and conﬁdent design path.
    3. Enhance pipeline design using the provided Kernel code.
    4. Do not modify or add any content outside the above three items.
    Structural Adjustment Rules
    1. Keep the single best block: If multiple <think>...</think> blocks exist, you must keep only the most complete and
    clear one, and remove all others.
    Input and Output

         • Input-1 (Kernel Code): The Kernel code section below, used to assist your understanding for supplementing pipeline
           design.
         • Input-2 (Original Markdown): The CoT that must be processed.
         • Output: Return the fully optimized Markdown document directly. Do not include any additional explanations or
           annotations.


                                       Table 15: General instructions used in the prompt.
References
a-m team. 2025. Am-deepseek-r1-0528-distilled.

Anonymous. 2025. Tritongym: A benchmark for agentic LLM workﬂows in triton GPU code generation. In
Submitted to The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations. Under review.

Jason Ansel, Edward Yang, Horace He, Natalia Gimelshein, Animesh Jain, Michael Voznesensky, Bin Bao, Peter
Bell, David Berard, Evgeni Burovski, and 1 others. 2024. Pytorch 2: Faster machine learning through dynamic
python bytecode transformation and graph compilation. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference
on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems, Volume 2, pages 929–947.

Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang,
Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and 1 others. 2021. Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2108.07732.

Riyadh Baghdadi, Jessica Ray, Malek Ben Romdhane, Emanuele Del Sozzo, Abdurrahman Akkas, Yunming
Zhang, Patricia Suriana, Shoaib Kamil, and Saman Amarasinghe. 2019. Tiramisu: A polyhedral compiler for
expressing fast and portable code. In 2019 IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Code Generation and Opti-
mization (CGO), pages 193–205. IEEE.

Carlo Baronio, Pietro Marsella, Ben Pan, Simon Guo, and Silas Alberti. 2025. Kevin: Multi-turn rl for generating
cuda kernels. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.11948.

Mark Chen. 2021. Evaluating large language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374.

Tianqi Chen, Thierry Moreau, Ziheng Jiang, Lianmin Zheng, Eddie Yan, Haichen Shen, Meghan Cowan, Leyuan
Wang, Yuwei Hu, Luis Ceze, and 1 others. 2018. {TVM}: An automated {End-to-End} optimizing compiler for
deep learning. In 13th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 18), pages
578–594.

Wentao Chen, Jiace Zhu, Qi Fan, Yehan Ma, and An Zou. 2025. Cuda-llm: Llms can write efﬁcient cuda kernels.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09092.

DeepSeek-AI. 2025. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. CoRR,
abs/2501.12948.

Juncheng Dong, Yang Yang, Tao Liu, Yang Wang, Feng Qi, Vahid Tarokh, Kaushik Rangadurai, and Shuang Yang.
2025. Stark: Strategic team of agents for reﬁning kernels. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.16996.

Zacharias V. Fisches, Sahan Paliskara, Simon Guo, Alex Zhang, Joe Spisak, Chris Cummins, Hugh Leather,
Gabriel Synnaeve, Joe Isaacson, Aram Markosyan, and Mark Sarouﬁm. 2025. Kernelllm: Making kernel de-
velopment more accessible. Corresponding authors: Aram Markosyan, Mark Sarouﬁm.

Gemini-Team. 2025. Gemini 2.5 pro model documentation.           https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/
models. Accessed 2025.

Junfeng Gong, Zhiyi Wei, Junying Chen, Cheng Liu, and Huawei Li. 2025. From large to small: Transferring cuda
optimization expertise via reasoning graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.19873.

Xiaodong Gu, Meng Chen, Yalan Lin, Yuhan Hu, Hongyu Zhang, Chengcheng Wan, Zhao Wei, Yong Xu, and
Juhong Wang. 2025. On the effectiveness of large language models in domain-speciﬁc code generation. ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, 34(3):1–22.

Ping Guo, Chenyu Zhu, Siyuan Chen, Fei Liu, Xi Lin, Zhichao Lu, and Qingfu Zhang. 2025. Evoengineer:
Mastering automated cuda kernel code evolution with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.03760.

Pin-Lun Hsu, Yun Dai, Vignesh Kothapalli, Qingquan Song, Shao Tang, Siyu Zhu, Steven Shimizu, Shivam Sahni,
Haowen Ning, and Yanning Chen. 2024. Liger kernel: Efﬁcient triton kernels for llm training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.10989.

Hugodonotexit. 2025. R1 dataset collection: Aggregated deepseek-r1 and deepseek-r1-0528 responses. https:
//huggingface.co/Hugodonotexit/math-code-science-deepseek-r1-en.

Binyuan Hui, Jian Yang, Zeyu Cui, Jiaxi Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Lei Zhang, Tianyu Liu, Jiajun Zhang, Bowen Yu,
Keming Lu, and 1 others. 2024. Qwen2. 5-coder technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12186.
Zhihao Jia, Oded Padon, James Thomas, Todd Warszawski, Matei Zaharia, and Alex Aiken. 2019. Taso: optimiz-
ing deep learning computation with automatic generation of graph substitutions. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, pages 47–62.

Robert Tjarko Lange, Aaditya Prasad, Qi Sun, Maxence Faldor, Yujin Tang, and David Ha. 2025. The ai cuda
engineer: Agentic cuda kernel discovery, optimization and composition. Technical report, Technical report, Sakana
AI, 02 2025.

Chris Lattner, Mehdi Amini, Uday Bondhugula, Albert Cohen, Andy Davis, Jacques Pienaar, River Riddle, Tatiana
Shpeisman, Nicolas Vasilache, and Oleksandr Zinenko. 2020. Mlir: A compiler infrastructure for the end of
moore’s law. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.11054.

Hung Le, Yue Wang, Akhilesh Deepak Gotmare, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Chu Hong Hoi. 2022. Coderl: Master-
ing code generation through pretrained models and deep reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:21314–21328.

Shangzhan Li, Zefan Wang, Ye He, Yuxuan Li, Qi Shi, Jianling Li, Yonggang Hu, Wanxiang Che, Xu Han, Zhiyuan
Liu, and 1 others. 2025a. Autotriton: Automatic triton programming with reinforcement learning in llms. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2507.05687.

Xiaoya Li, Xiaofei Sun, Albert Wang, Jiwei Li, and Chris Shum. 2025b. Cuda-l1: Improving cuda optimization
via contrastive reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.14111.

Heng Liao, Jiajin Tu, Jing Xia, Hu Liu, Xiping Zhou, Honghui Yuan, and Yuxing Hu. 2021. Ascend: a scalable
and uniﬁed architecture for ubiquitous deep neural network computing: Industry track paper. In 2021 IEEE
International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA), pages 789–801. IEEE.

Cong Liu, Zhong Wang, ShengYu Shen, Jialiang Peng, Xiaoli Zhang, ZhenDong Du, and YaFang Wang.
2025. The chinese dataset distilled from deepseek-r1-671b. https://huggingface.co/datasets/Congliu/
Chinese-DeepSeek-R1-Distill-data-110k.

Stefano Markidis, Steven Wei Der Chien, Erwin Laure, Ivy Bo Peng, and Jeffrey S Vetter. 2018. Nvidia tensor
core programmability, performance & precision. In 2018 IEEE international parallel and distributed processing
symposium workshops (IPDPSW), pages 522–531. IEEE.

Alexander Novikov, Ngân Vũ, Marvin Eisenberger, Emilien Dupont, Po-Sen Huang, Adam Zsolt Wagner, Sergey
Shirobokov, Borislav Kozlovskii, Francisco JR Ruiz, Abbas Mehrabian, and 1 others. 2025. Alphaevolve: A
coding agent for scientiﬁc and algorithmic discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.13131.

Anne Ouyang, Simon Guo, Simran Arora, Alex L Zhang, William Hu, Christopher Ré, and Azalia Mirhoseini.
2025. Kernelbench: Can llms write efﬁcient gpu kernels? arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.10517.

Qwen-Team. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. Preprint, arXiv:2505.09388.

Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D. Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023.
Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. In Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems.

Jonathan Ragan-Kelley, Connelly Barnes, Andrew Adams, Sylvain Paris, Frédo Durand, and Saman Amarasinghe.
2013. Halide: a language and compiler for optimizing parallelism, locality, and recomputation in image processing
pipelines. Acm Sigplan Notices, 48(6):519–530.

Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu
Liu, Romain Sauvestre, Tal Remez, and 1 others. 2023. Code llama: Open foundation models for code. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.12950.

Daniel Snider and Ruofan Liang. 2023.       Operator fusion in xla: analysis and evaluation.      arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.13062.

Philippe Tillet, Hsiang-Tsung Kung, and David Cox. 2019. Triton: an intermediate language and compiler for
tiled neural network computations. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Machine
Learning and Programming Languages, pages 10–19.

Nicolas Vasilache, Oleksandr Zinenko, Theodoros Theodoridis, Priya Goyal, Zachary DeVito, William S Moses,
Sven Verdoolaege, Andrew Adams, and Albert Cohen. 2018. Tensor comprehensions: Framework-agnostic high-
performance machine learning abstractions. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.04730.
voidful. 2025. reasoning_gemini_300k. HuggingFace dataset. https://huggingface.co/datasets/voidful/
reasoning_gemini_300k, accessed 2025-12-05.
Haojie Wang, Jidong Zhai, Mingyu Gao, Zixuan Ma, Shizhi Tang, Liyan Zheng, Yuanzhi Li, Kaiyuan Rong,
Yuanyong Chen, and Zhihao Jia. 2021. {PET}: Optimizing tensor programs with partially equivalent transforma-
tions and automated corrections. In 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI 21), pages 37–54.
Zhongzhen Wen, Yinghui Zhang, Zhong Li, Zhongxin Liu, Linna Xie, and Tian Zhang. 2025. Multikernelbench:
A multi-platform benchmark for kernel generation. arXiv eprints, pp. arXiv–2507.
Jiin Woo, Shaowei Zhu, Allen Nie, Zhen Jia, Yida Wang, and Youngsuk Park. 2025. Tritonrl: Training llms to
think and code triton without cheating. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.17891.

Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Gioele Gottardo, and Anastasios Zouzias. 2025. Parallel scan on ascend ai accelerators.
In Greeks in AI Symposium 2025.

Weicheng Xue, Kai Yang, Yongxiang Liu, Dengdong Fan, Pengxiang Xu, and Yonghong Tian. 2024. Unlocking
high performance with low-bit npus and cpus for highly optimized hpl-mxp on cloud brain ii. In SC24: Interna-
tional Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, pages 1–16. IEEE.
Zijian Zhang, Rong Wang, Shiyang Li, Yuebo Luo, Mingyi Hong, and Caiwen Ding. 2025. Cudaforge: An agent
framework with hardware feedback for cuda kernel optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.01884.
Jie Zhao, Bojie Li, Wang Nie, Zhen Geng, Renwei Zhang, Xiong Gao, Bin Cheng, Chen Wu, Yun Cheng, Zheng Li,
and 1 others. 2021. Akg: automatic kernel generation for neural processing units using polyhedral transformations.
In Proceedings of the 42nd ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Programming Language Design and
Implementation, pages 1233–1248.
Lianmin Zheng, Chengfan Jia, Minmin Sun, Zhao Wu, Cody Hao Yu, Ameer Haj-Ali, Yida Wang, Jun Yang,
Danyang Zhuo, Koushik Sen, and 1 others. 2020. Ansor: Generating {High-Performance} tensor programs for
deep learning. In 14th USENIX symposium on operating systems design and implementation (OSDI 20), pages
863–879.
Liyan Zheng, Haojie Wang, Jidong Zhai, Muyan Hu, Zixuan Ma, Tuowei Wang, Shuhong Huang, Xupeng Miao,
Shizhi Tang, Kezhao Huang, and 1 others. 2023. {EINNET}: Optimizing tensor programs with {Derivation-
Based} transformations. In 17th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI
23), pages 739–755.
         Table 16: Representative examples of errors in generated kernels, grouped by error type.

Error Type                          Example          Description
                                    Equal            Muls: third argument LocalTensor<ﬂoat> instead of
                                                     scalar; Greater: function not declared; Mins: third
API Signature and Overloading                        argument minValLocal LocalTensor<ﬂoat> instead
                                                     of ﬂoat; DataCopy: LocalTensor<ﬂoat> vs Global-
                                                     Tensor<half> type conﬂict; ReduceSum: missing re-
                                                     quired template parameter pattern.
                                    Arange           Add: 4 arguments including ﬂoat16 scalar, but all
                                                     overloads require LocalTensor and more parameters;
                                                     Duplicate: 3 arguments (LocalTensor, int, int) pro-
                                                     vided, but all overloads require 6 arguments or have
                                                     type conﬂicts (unsigned int vs int).
                                    Equal            equal: ﬂoat to bool conversion unsupported by
Data Type and Casting
                                                     CastIntrinsicsImpl; Duplicate: target yLocal type
                                                     LocalTensor<bool> conﬂicts with template ﬂoat;
                                                     Sub: input tensors type inference conﬂict (bool vs
                                                     ﬂoat).
                                    Less             Duplicate used with uint8_t/bool, unsupported
                                                     types; int16_t to bool conversion missing CastIntrin-
                                                     sicsImpl overload.
                                    Icamax           TQue missing GetSize; undeﬁned FLT_MAX; un-
Memory and Object Misuse
                                                     deﬁned fabs; another TQue missing GetSize; Dat-
                                                     aCopy: parameter mismatch, expected (Global-
                                                     Tensor, LocalTensor, int); Init: 4 arguments pro-
                                                     vided, 5 expected.
                                    Isamax           Dereferencing      uint64_t       from     Local-
                                                     Tensor::GetPhyAddr(); DataCopy: reinterpret_cast
                                                     int32_t* to __gm__ int32_t* invalid.
                                    IsInf            Undeclared identiﬁer ’IsInf’; Undeclared ’ToLocal-
Variable Scope and Lifetime
                                                     Tensor’, likely meant ’LocalTensor’, used in And
                                                     function.
                                    Ccopy            Undeclared ’complex64’ in GlobalTensor/Local-
                                                     Tensor templates and sizeof; Undeclared ’c10’, caus-
                                                     ing template instantiation and sizeof errors.
                                    Snrm2        SyncAll() deﬁned without parameters, called as tem-
Syntax and Structural
                                                 plate SyncAll<true>(); KernelSnrm2 missing mem-
                                                 ber ’tailBlock’; tiling struct registration fails.
                                    FastGeluGrad Variable name starting with digit (’1_702_x’), in-
                                                 valid in C++.
                                    ClipByValue      TILING_KEY_IS macro misused; macro expansion
Macro and Preprocessing
                                                     may lack semicolon.
                                    Sasum            ’ALIGN_SIZE’ ambiguous (user-deﬁned 8 vs As-
                                                     cendC 32); DataCopyPad parameter mismatch;
                                                     TBuf missing SetFlag member function.
